=== 페이지 1 ===


=== 페이지 2 ===
t h e f a c t s o n f i l e e n c y c l o p e d i a   o f  World Mythology and   l egend  THIRd Ed ITI on  ANTHONY S. MERC ATANTE & ja mes r. dow

=== 페이지 3 ===
The Facts On File Encyclopedia of World Mythology and Legend, Third Edition  Copyright © 2009 by Anthony S. Mercatante All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage or retrieval systems, without permission in writing from the publisher. For information contact: Facts On File, Inc. An imprint of Infobase Publishing 132 West 31st Street New York NY 10001  Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data  Mercatante, Anthony S.  The Facts On File encyclopedia of world mythology and legend / Anthony S. Mercatante & James R. Dow—3rd ed.  p. cm.  Includes bibliographical references and index.  ISBN-13: 978-0-8160-7311-5 (hc : alk. paper)  ISBN-13: 978-1-4381-2685-2 (e-book) 1. Mythology—Dictionaries. 2. Folklore— Dictionaries. I. Dow, James R. II. Title.  BL303.M45 2004  201'.303—dc22   2007051965 Facts On File books are available at special discounts when purchased in bulk quantities for businesses, associations, institutions, or sales promotions. Please call our Special Sales Department in New York at (212) 967-8800 or (800) 322-8755. You can find Facts On File on the World Wide Web at http://www.factsonfile.com Text design by Erika K. Arroyo Cover design by Salvatore Luongo Printed in the United States of America VB FOF 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 This book is printed on acid-free paper and contains 30 percent postconsumer recycled content.

=== 페이지 4 ===
6  Dedicated to all my family  — J   .   .   .

=== 페이지 5 ===


=== 페이지 6 ===
  Contents  Preface to the third edition vii US er S’ G U ide  i X  i ntrod U ction X i  t he   e ncyclo P edia of World Mytholo G y and   l e G end 1 annotated Bi B lio G ra P hy 1067 We B   re S o U rce S  1099  l i S t of entrie S   cate G orized   B y  cU lt U re and ethnicity 1104  6

=== 페이지 7 ===


=== 페이지 8 ===
 ii  This popular encyclopedia has now undergone  two revisions since it first appeared in 1988. For  this update, like the last, I enlisted professional  colleagues to help write and revise entries on  subjects outside my area of expertise. While  I am comfortable writing about many of the  cultural areas covered in this book, particularly  the European and American regions, and most  particularly the Germanic, I continue to find it  a formidable task to evaluate entries that deal  with Asia, Africa, and Oceania, and many other  regions of the world. Nonetheless, the value  of having one person responsible is still appar -  ent, and I have tried to continue our system  of establishing logical cross-references across  cultures within all the entries, old and new.  About 150 new entries have been added to  this edition, and many existing entries have  been revised. A number of the new entries  are   devoted   to   issues   of   scholarship   within  the fields of mythology, legend, and folklore.  Important terms such as   monogenesis   and   poly -  genesis, fieldwork, folklorism, trickster,   and many  more now are found here. Other new entries  are devoted to important figures in folklore  and   mythology,   such   as   Cinderella,   Mayan  Letter   Gods,   Puss   in   Boots,   and   the   Sun  Snarer. Still others are devoted to historical  figures around whom myths and folklore have  arisen (such as Saladin and William Tell), and  authors who wrote down folktales (such as the  Grimm Brothers) or used folklore and mythol -  ogy extensively in their work (such as Eudora  Welty). In particular, new entries have been  added pertaining to the mythology and folklore  of Cambodia, Tibet, Ukraine, and other areas  that did not receive extensive coverage in pre -  vious editions.  The appendices have also been thoroughly  updated. About 175 entries have been added to  the bibliography to help serious students find  good sources of further information, and a new  section on Internet resources has been added.  In addition, the two indexes have been refined.  In the List of Entries Categorized by Culture  and Ethnicity, sections on Cambodia, Korea,  Tibet, Turkey, Ukraine, and several more have  been added to reflect new entries. More than  400 terms have been added to the General  Index. The bibliography has several new sec -  tions, including one entitled “Tale-Type and  Motif Indexes,” which is included to assist in  understanding the worldwide scope of the plots  and occurrences in traditional narratives.  Finally, the artwork for the book has under -  gone a complete overhaul. Many of the less  interesting or murkier illustrations have been  removed, and more than 200 new illustrations  have been added, so that the total number is  about 530. Most of the illustrations continue to  be black-and-white line drawings, which repro -  duce well in this book’s encyclopedic format;  Prefa C e to the  third edition  6

=== 페이지 9 ===
however, this edition also features for the first  time a few photographs, some of which were  taken by Susan Dow. Throughout, we have  attempted to select not necessarily the most  beautiful illustrations but, instead, those that  clearly convey the essence of the mythological  subject depicted.  Another important change to the edition is  that the entries are no longer numbered, and  the indexes are keyed to page numbers rather  than entry numbers, which makes the indexes  easier and more intuitive to use.  I would like to extend a word of gratitude  to those who helped make this new edition  a reality. First and foremost, I want to thank  Jeff Soloway at Facts On File, for asking me  to produce a new edition, and then enduring  my incessant questions on how to make this  work ever more useful and user-friendly. It  is a good working relationship that we have.  Second, I want to thank Greenwood Press for  allowing me to use a few texts and photos that  I had recently published in my   German Folk -  lore: A Handbook   (2006). And, as always, I want  to thank my wife, Susan Dow, for showing  patience with this emeritus professor, letting  me work for many days, weeks, and months  on this revision when we should be traveling  or just doing “retirement” things. To all, my  sincere thanks.  —James R. Dow  Story City, Iowa  viii   Preface to the Third Edition

=== 페이지 10 ===
ix  The   encyclopedia   is   organized   as   an   A–Z  volume, accompanied by a General Index, a  List of Entries Categorized by Culture and  Ethnicity, and an updated Annotated Bibliog -  raphy. The entry texts have been somewhat  restructured.   The   headword   for   each   entry  appears at the very beginning of an entry, fol -  lowed by variant spellings in parentheses. The  translations of the entries have been updated or  revised when new or more accurate information  is known. The most commonly accepted mean -  ing of a name is included when available. The  reader, however, must bear in mind that many  translations of ancient names are merely schol -  arly conjectures or folk etymologies. Following  the translation of the entry name is a concise  definition. Only after all this is the encyclopedic  detail offered. As an additional reference aid,  citations of relevant art, music, films, and litera -  ture have been included. Cross-references fol -  low and relate primarily to the entry itself, but  there are also many references to other items;  for example, the “Adam and Eve” entry now  contains cross-references to figures from many  cultures who represent the parents of humanity.  These cross-references follow the entry and are  listed after the phrase   See also.  Finally, there is an extensive bibliography,  with many new titles, all of which include a brief  annotation. In two cases the reader should be  aware that the encyclopedia entry itself makes  reference to the bibliography. Under the terms  motif   and   tale type,   there is reference to the stan -  dard classification reference works found in the  Bibliography: the   Tale Type Index of the Folktale  and the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  Users ’   g U ide  6  Headword   Variant spellings   Translation   Definition   Detail  Reference aid Cross-references  Angurboda.   (Angrbotha) (one who bodes danger or sorrow). In Norse mythology,  a hideous giantess, wife of the fire-trickster god, Loki; mother of three monsters, the wolf  Fenrir, the goddess of death (Hel), and the gigantic Midgard serpent. Angurboda appears  in the   Prose Edda .  See also:   fenrir; loki; hel; midgard serpent;  prose edda

=== 페이지 11 ===


=== 페이지 12 ===
xi  i ntrod UC tion  Homo narans.   As far back as we can trace our  human history, including through prehistori -  cal evidence gained from archaeology, we are  aware that the human (homo) community has  always participated in the narrating (narans)  of stories. Today we are aware that there are  many kinds of stories, some ancient and some  newly created as part of our daily lives. In  everyday speech we use a plethora of terms for  these stories, including   myth, legend, folktale,  and   fable,   but the usage is not very precise. Our  curiosity has led us to seek sources for many of  these narratives, particularly those that we con -  ceive to be the oldest, through historical and  comparative studies, through philological and  psychological research, and through insistent  attempts at symbolic readings. In the scholarly  world we have also long felt the need to clas -  sify the different types of stories. Through  the classification of narratives, which basically  means associating stories with similar plots as  well as similar genres, we have long felt that we  might gain some insight into the actual works  themselves. Source seeking and classification,  however, are not the purpose of this volume,  for here we are interested in the stories them -  selves. Two main types of stories, two genres  if you will, receive the most attention—myths  and legends—but it will be quite apparent to  users of this book that there are other kinds of  closely related tales, for example, the folktale  and the fable. Thus, this encyclopedia includes  all of these genres, and this edition has been  expanded to include characters, motifs, and  references to other closely related expressive  forms. Brief definitions will help us understand  the different types of stories that are found in  this volume.  Myth   is certainly the most complex of the  genres. Definitions frequently emphasize the  anonymous nature of myths, and all too often  include imprecise terms like   traditional   or   in  oral tradition,   and state that they are “passed  from one generation to the next.” Some schol -  ars   have   spoken   of   “sacred   narratives”   and  have tried to locate them in a “remote past,”  while others have suggested that the narra -  tors believed the story to be “literally true.”  There are, it seems, as many definitions of  myth as there are those who are interested in  them. Most convincing in this array of inher -  ent components of a myth is the suggestion  that myths discuss preternatural topics, that  is they present and ponder (discuss) in narra -  tive form topics that are beyond (preter) the  natural or the normal, not really miracles, but  still strange and inexplicable. For too long now  there has been an assumption that myths are in  fact primarily attempts to explain the origin of  natural phenomena or cultural rituals among  social groups. It is, however, distinctly possible  that myths are never really intended to explain  6

=== 페이지 13 ===
xii   Introduction  anything, but are rather poetic devices that give  concrete images to unexplainable phenomena,  both natural and social. The ancient Greeks  could not explain the passage of the Sun across  the sky in astronomical terms, nor could the  Japanese explain smoke rising from a particular  mountain, at least not in terms of vulcanol -  ogy. There is, however, sufficient textual evi -  dence in the numerous bodies of mythology  from around the world to suggest that ancient  peoples, sometimes referred to as “primitives,”  used poetic devices to describe Apollo’s sun  chariot on its passage through the sky, or the  smoke rising from a volcanic Mount Fujiyama  as the fiery passion of an emperor who sought  to follow his beloved into heaven from a moun -  tain top. When we create such stories today we  call these images simply “metaphors.”  For   centuries   major   attempts   have   been  undertaken   to   understand   myths   and   myth  making.   In   the   19th   century   there   was   an  attempt to trace all myths back to an Indic  source, thus implying what is referred to as the  “monogenesis” of such stories. This resulted in  competing schools of thought, ranging from  sun   and   moon   mythologists   to   those   who  sought a ritualistic source for the tales. Coun -  tertheories   of   the   “polygenesis”   of   myths,  soon developed, based to some degree on our  rapidly expanding collections of the mytholo -  gies of people from around the world, but also  based on our increasing knowledge of depth  psychology.   By   the   20th   century   Sigmund  Freud seemed to offer a way through this maze  of theories. He believed that mythology was  “psychology projected into the external world.”  For him and others, such as Carl G. Jung, it  was clear that all human societies go through  the same stages of intellectual and cultural  development, that nature and the psyche are  the same in all human beings, and the psycho -  logical processes are then manifested in the  same way in all individuals, including in their  expressive behavior—for our purposes, in their  mythology. Such an approach would help us  understand why the biblical flood myth and the  virgin birth story are found in many societies,  not just in the Christian tradition. Alas, all such  theories yielded little reliable information on  the sources and origins of these tales, and only  limited useful information about their spread.  Still, most theories of myth, with the possible  exception of psychological approaches, have  at least one thing in common, and that is the  idea that evil, disorder, and chaos come from  the outside. In the past and today, in spite of  all scientific knowledge to the contrary, we still  do not want to believe that evil is inherent to  the human condition. This assertion helps us  understand why so many myths account for the  source of negatives in the world. It is almost  always an evil god or goddess, a disorderly fig -  ure, or something other than our own human  condition that brings on all of the bad things  that happen to us. In summary, we don’t really  know, nor does it seem that we can know, where  the plots and the contents of our stories come  from. We can know, however, that humans  have continually attempted to deal with, but  not necessarily explain, the unknown.  Finally in regard to myth, there is a negative  use of the word that needs some clarification. In  the early years of Christianity in Europe there  was a persistent attempt to discredit competing  beliefs still surviving among the newly con -  verted populace. Other beliefs were referred to  as “false mythologies,” while Christian beliefs  were treated as “the true religion.” We can still  see this kind of cultural bias in the modern-day  German word for superstition,   Aberglaube,   used  in Germany since the 15th century to single  out those whose belief ( Glaube ) was other than  Christian ( Aber,   meaning here “un-Christian”).  This use of myth as something “false” or as  something in opposition to the “true” religion,  carried over into the secular world. In com -  mon usage today, particularly in newspapers  or magazines,   myth   is most often used to refer  to something that many assert as fact but that  can be shown through scientific analysis to be  false. We read about the “myth of easy cancer  cures” or the “myth of Kentucky Fried Rats.”

=== 페이지 14 ===
Introduction   xiii  This usage has little to do with the mytholo -  gies of the world presented in this volume but  sometimes reflects legends current in a modern  and more urban setting.  Legend   may have been even more misused  than the word   myth   to describe stories, tales,  narratives of various kinds. For the most part  legend too has been described as “anonymous”  and “traditional,” but definitions of legend also  usually include a statement to the effect that  a legend is “ believed   to be true” and has as its  main characters “ historical   personages.” More  recent   scholarly   attempts   to   define   legend  have refined these terms and focused on the  legend’s monoepisodic and localized character -  istics, which are presented in a conversational  mode. The descriptive term   historical   has been  replaced by the new term,   historicized,   but there  continue to be statements to the effect that  such tales are “told as believable.” Even with  these   refined   terms,   some   clarification   still  seems necessary.  In contrast to myths, legends almost always  focus on a single episode, which is then often  presented as miraculous, uncanny, bizarre, and  sometimes   even   embarrassing.   Legends   are  indeed set in historical time, as we know it,  and they frequently make reference to specific  people and places. The full identity of such  people and places is seldom directly addressed  in the narrative itself, but the narrator assumes  that they are known to the audience, and in  this way the legend becomes historicized, that  is, the story is associated with something or  someone who can be factually identified. Most  important in the telling of a legend, however,  is the question of truth, for a legend places  information before a listener who thus must  decide whether this particular narrative is to  be regarded as false or true, or partly false and  partly true. Scholars now think of legends as a  negotiation of truth and add that legends never  ask for the suspension of disbelief. The result  is a story whose truth is worthy of deliberation.  Even if this “truth” if finally rejected, the ques -  tion of truth must be entertained. Did the Pied  Piper of Hamelin really lead the children of  the village into the depths of a mountain? After  all, there is historical evidence to document  the   disappearance   of   130   children   on   June  26, 1284. Is there really a mysterious weeping  woman,   la llorona,   who seeks her dead children  along the river banks and arroyos of the Ameri -  can Southwest? There have been thousands of  reports of encounters with her. When these  stories are told or even read, the audience  immediately seems to divide into believers and  doubters, and a negotiation of the truth fol -  lows. Legends then, in contrast to myths, have  at their very core the question of believability  and truth. The question, however, is rarely  settled to the satisfaction of all participants of  the storytelling event.  Folktale   has frequently been used as a term  to describe many forms of oral narratives, from  jokes and anecdotes to lengthy adventure tales.  As a result of the collections published by  Charles Perrault in 1697, the Brothers Grimm  between 1812 and 1815, and Hans Christian  Andersen in 1872, we now think of folktales as  wonder tales and sometimes use the German  term   Märchen   to group them together. These  stories were long conceived to be of European  origin, and when they were found elsewhere,  for example in the Western Hemisphere or  even   in   Africa   or   Asia,   their   presence   was  most often attributed to diffusion. These tales  are clearly fictional and ahistorical, as we can  see by the opening and closing formulas like  “Once upon a time” and “They lived happily  ever after.”  Again,   however,   there   were   generaliza -  tions about their “anonymous” nature, or their  “being   passed   on   from   one   generation   to  another.” For most of the latter half of the  19th century and the first half of the 20th,  there were enormous scholarly undertakings  to record the many variants of the folktales,  particularly   those   of   Europe.   Monogenesis  was assumed, and an elaborate methodology  was developed to trace individual tales histori -  cally through time, in order to document their

=== 페이지 15 ===
xi    Introduction  antiquity and continuity, and geographically  through space, in order to document the dif -  fusion of such tales. Maps were used to create  an atlas of the variants, which included the  primary tale as well as subtypes or variants.  The entire concept of the variant, grew out  of these endeavors. Unfortunately, collectors  and scholars failed to take into account some  variants of the tales by editing or censoring out  from truly oral versions those elements that  might be considered as obscene or offensive.  Both Perrault and the Brothers Grimm were  guilty of manipulating their recorded stories.  Oral versions of Little Red Riding Hood, for  example, include vivid scenes of cannibalism,  eating the body and drinking the blood of the  grandmother, a virtual striptease, disrobing and  burning of her clothes at the command of the  wolf, and defecating in bed by the young girl,  but all these motifs have been completely sup -  pressed, and only those who use both oral and  written sources to try to understand the tales  are aware of these variant motifs.  With the flood of information in the form  of   “collected,”   published,   or   archived   texts,  folklorists were consumed for more than a cen -  tury and a half with establishing what they con -  ceived to be a core story, which they referred to  as a “tale type,” and with classifying the thou -  sands of motifs found in these same narratives.  Based on this work it seemed that it might  indeed be possible to document whether a tale  had a single origin or arose in widely separated  regions of the world. This might then give us  an answer to the questions of monogenesis  versus polygenesis. Source seeking set scholars  off on a centurieslong quest that left us with  intriguing theories and extensive compendia  for comparing the various tales but otherwise  produced far too little information to give us  answers to our continuing quest for sources.  Scholars today are more interested in the his -  torical, social, and contextual settings of the  storytelling event itself.  What then is a folktale, and perhaps of  more interest, does it still exist as an oral form  like the myth and the legend? In contrast to  the myth, which may have and still does serve  the purpose of depicting natural and social  phenomena, as we have seen, and the legend,  which laces our conversations with stories that  we must decipher as true or false, the folktale  is pure fantasy, exceptionally free-flowing, and  has the effect of removing its topic from any  constraints   of   reality.   Folktales,   or   wonder  tales, however, are seldom a part of our active  storytelling repertoire. Still, the stories them -  selves are sometimes told by professional story -  tellers, and there are continuing publications of  them, both through new translations of older  collections and through selections of individual  tales and more unified collections.  Fable   is usually defined simply as an ani -  mal tale with a moral. Are fables too “anony -  mous” like the other narrative forms above?  Perhaps, but what about the collections by  Aesop or Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, or the  modern   versions   by   James   Thurber?   Have  they been passed on from one generation to  another, orally? Some have been, but others  are purely literary in nature. Are they believed  in any sense? Do they really teach a moral?  Many conclude with a brief statement, which  has often been described as a moral. Are talk -  ing animals always the main characters in the  fables? Fables are more complex than this kind  of generalization would suggest.  They do indeed seem to be oral tales that  eventually are written down, and some of the  collections have come down to us. Some schol -  ars prefer an ancient Greek definition that cap -  tures the fable’s essentially rhetorical genius:  “a fictitious story picturing a truth.” Perhaps  more useful would be to describe fables as sto -  ries with human, animal, or inanimate objects  as their characters. Most important, however,  would   be   an   emphasis   on   fables   as   stories  that teach worldly wisdom and shrewdness,  not moral values or good conduct. The many  Aesopic fables about foxes and lions, the Joel  Chandler   Harris   stories   about   Br’er   Rabbit  and Br’er Fox, James Thurber’s tale about the

=== 페이지 16 ===
Introduction   x   “Unicorn in the Garden,” and George Orwell’s  Animal Farm   are all good examples of animals  and humans exemplifying their shrewd nature,  hardly their moral virtues.  The stories included in these volumes, even  though the collection is quite extensive, repre -  sent only a small selection from the world of  mythology, legend, folktale, and fable. In the  first edition Anthony Mercatante suggested  that we enjoy these works because they hold  our attention. He went on to say that they are  “about us, our hopes, fears, joys and tragedies.  Even in our scientific age, when we supposedly  have cast aside so many relics from the past, we  find these works still vibrant and vital, because  they are about us.” I would add that they are  narrative forms that we learn, teach, and use,  many times, during face-to-face interactions.  We think of them as traditional because they  are based on known models or because they  serve as evidence of continuities through time  and   space   in   human   knowledge,   thought,  belief, and feeling.  Together we say, What more can we ask?

=== 페이지 17 ===


=== 페이지 18 ===
6    a  Aa   (A, Anunit, Aya)   In Near Eastern mythol -  ogy (Babylonian-Assyrian), consort of the sun  god Shamash, sometimes called Makkatu (mis -  tress; queen). Originally Aa may have been a local  male sun god whose gender was changed when  the worship of the major sun god, Shamash,  took precedence, the minor god becoming the  female consort of Shamash. Her attendants were  Kittu (truth) and Misharu (righteousness).  See also:   shamash  Aaron   In the Bible, O.T., son of Amram  and Jochebed and elder brother of Moses and  Miriam; married Elisheba; father of four sons.  He was a leader of the Exodus.  Aaron, a Levite, is first mentioned in the  book of Exodus (4:14). He was appointed by  Yahweh (a cult name of the Hebrew god) to  be the interpreter of his brother Moses, who  was “slow of speech” (Exod. 4:16). Aaron is the  instrument of many of the miracles associated  with the Exodus from Egypt, such as when he  caused the rivers of Egypt to turn to blood  (Exod. 7:20) and when he brought on Egypt  a plague of frogs (Exod. 8:5). But Aaron was  not as strong a personality as Moses. When his  brother went up to the mountain to converse  with Yahweh, Aaron gave in to the demands of  the people and fashioned a golden calf for them  to worship (Exod. 32). When Moses descended  from Mount Sinai, he found the people wor -  shipping their new god (based on Egyptian  deities) and in anger destroyed the tables of  stone containing the Ten Commandments that  Yahweh had given him on the sacred mountain.  Then he burned the golden calf, ground it to  powder, mixed it with water, and forced the  worshippers to drink it. Yahweh intended to  destroy Aaron for his sin, but Moses intervened  and prayed for his brother (Deut. 9:20).  Aaron was then consecrated High Priest of  Yahweh by Moses. From that time the legend  of Aaron turns almost entirely to his priestly  functions. One tells of the rebellion of the sons  of Korah (Num. 16:1–35). Korah, a Levite, with  Dathan and Abiram, questioned Aaron’s right to  the priesthood. Moses then challenged them to  offer incense to Yahweh (a rite only to be done  by the priests). As a punishment Yahweh had the  earth open up and swallow Korah and his men.  Aaron   was   the   keeper   of   the   tribal   rod,  an official talisman that each of the Twelve  Tribes possessed. At Yahweh’s command Moses  ordered each of the 12 to bring its rod to the  Tabernacle. When the rods were left in front  of the Ark, Aaron’s rod miraculously budded,  bearing almonds (Num. 17:5–11) and was seen  as Yahweh’s approval of Aaron’s role as priest.  Aaron died at Mount Hor at 123 years of age  after transference of his priestly robes and office  to Eleazar (Num. 20:28). Jewish folk tradition  not included in the Bible says that at Aaron’s

=== 페이지 19 ===
death the cave on the mountain was obliterated  by God, but the people claimed that Moses had  killed his brother out of jealousy for his popular -  ity. To prove the people wrong, God produced a  vision of Aaron on a couch, floating in midair.  In Islamic legend Aaron is called Harun. In  the Koran (sura 19) Moses and Aaron went up  to the mountain together, knowing that one  was about to die but not knowing which. They  found a coffin that did not fit Moses but fit  Aaron. Moses then told Aaron to rest in it, and  Aaron was taken up to heaven. Jewish folk tra -  dition records that Aaron is in Paradise seated  beneath the Tree of Life, where he instructs  priests in their duty. Christian writers during  the Middle Ages looked on Aaron as a prefigu -  ration of Christ. Thus, just as Aaron was a high  priest of the Old Testament, so Jesus was the  high priest of the New Testament. Some of the  cult objects associated with Aaron in the Old  Testament were viewed as prefigurations of the  vestments worn by Christian priests and bish -  ops. This, however, is not the actual case; the  vestments were based on secular Roman dress  of the early Christian era.  Western art frequently pictures Aaron in  paintings of Moses. Often Aaron holds a cen -  ser pears in full priestly vestments, which are  described in detail in Exodus (chap. 28). He  may wear a turban or a crown that resembles  the papal crown of later Christian art. His robe  may have bells, which he used to frighten off  demons. Tintoretto painted   Worship of the Golden  Calf,   and Felix Chretien painted   Moses before the  Pharaoh ; the latter portrays Aaron and his magic  rod and the transformation of the snakes, as  told in the Bible. In music, Rossini’s opera   Mosè  in Egitto   (Moses in Egypt) and Arnold Schoen -  berg’s opera   Moses und Aron   (Moses and Aaron)  both contain roles for Aaron.  In   Christian   folklore   the   name   “Aaron’s  beard” is applied to several wild plants, such  Aaron and Korah     Aaron

=== 페이지 20 ===
as St. John’s wort, the ivy-leaved toadflax, and  meadowsweet. The name is derived from the  mention of Aaron’s beard in Psalm 133, which  also inspired a poem by the 17th-century English  poet George Herbert.  “Aaron’s rod” is a name given to various  plants, including the great mullein and the  goldenrod. It is also a name for the divining  rod or magic wand used by magicians. The  expression “Aaron’s serpent” refers to the bib -  lical legend that his rod turned into a serpent  and swallowed up the serpents of the Egyptian  priests (Exod. 8:10–12).  See also:   mars; moses; yahweh  Aba   (above)   In   North   American   Indian  mythology (Choctaw of Bayou Lacomb, St.  Tammany Parish, Louisiana), good spirit, cre -  ator, heaven. At first there was a mountain,  Nane Chaha (high hills), that had a passage  from the top to caverns under the earth. From  these   caverns   emerged   the   first   Choctaws,  along with ants. The Choctaws killed the ants’  mother, and they called on Aba, who closed the  mountain exit, locking in the remaining people  and later transforming them into ants.  Abaris   (boatless one)   In Greek mythology, a  sage who traveled with a magic arrow given him  by the god Apollo. Abaris also used the arrow to  invoke oracles and later gave it to Pythagoras in  exchange for lessons in the latter’s philosophy. It  was believed that Abaris never ate.  See also:   apollo  Abderus   (son of battle)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a son of Hermes and Opus. A male lover  of Heracles, the hero sent Abderus to guard  the maneating mares of the Bistonian king  Diomedes. When Heracles discovered the lad  had been eaten by the mares, he built the city  of Abdera in his lover’s memory.  See also:   diomedes; heracles; hermes  Abdiel   (servant of God)   In medieval Jewish  folklore, an angel appearing in   The Book of  the Angel Raziel.   Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book  5:805–808, 896) makes Abdiel the angel who  opposes Satan’s plans to overthrow God’s rule.  Milton may have borrowed the name Abdiel  from 1 Chronicles (5:15) where it is given as  the name of the son of Guni and the father of  Ahi in the genealogy of Gad. Or Milton may  have known the medieval Jewish work since he  was well read in rabbinical writings.  Abel   (meadow? breath?)   In the Bible, O.T.,  a shepherd, the second son of Adam and Eve.  Abel was killed by his brother Cain (Gen. 4:2–  8). Yahweh (a cult name for the Hebrew god)  favored Abel’s offering over Cain’s, though the  reason is not stated exactly in the Bible. In the  New Testament Jesus speaks of Abel as the first  martyr (Matt. 23:35), and he was considered so  by the writers in the early church. In the Koran  (sura 5) Abel is called Habil. Albrecht Dürer  and William Blake are among the artists who  have portrayed Abel’s death.  Abelites were a fourth-century Christian  sect mentioned by St. Augustine. They married  but had no children except by adoption. Since  no children of Abel are mentioned in the Bible,  Abelites assumed he had none and followed his  lead.  See also:   adam and eve; augustine, st.  Abel     Cain kills Abel

=== 페이지 21 ===
Abenamar   and   King   Don   Juan   Late  medieval   Spanish-Moorish   historical   ballad.  In 1431 King Juan II of Castile besieged the  Moorish stronghold of Granada. After defeat -  ing the Moors the king placed the Moorish  Infante Abenalmao on the throne. The ballad  tells in part how the king questions a Moorish  slave, Abenamar, on the condition of the city.  The Moorish lad replies with a description of  its beauties. The king then says:  If thou art willing, O Granada  I will woo thee for my bride,  Cordova shall be thy dowry,  And Sevilla by its side.  The answer, however, is  I’m no widow, good King John,  I am still a wedded wife;  And the Moor, who is my husband,  Loves me better than his life (James  Young Gibson translation).  Arabic poets, from whom this ballad stems,  often used the term   husband   or   spouse   to refer  to the lord of a region or city; the city is often  spoken of as a bride.  See also:   ballad; don juan  Abe no Seimei   (Kamo Yasunari, Kamo Hogon,  Abe no Yasunari)   In Japanese folklore, hero -  magician, son of the poet Abe no Yasuna and  Kuzunoha, a white fox. Abe no Seimei was the  court astrologer and is sometimes portrayed  with his fox mother, Kuzunoha, who holds a  writing brush in her mouth. Abe no Seimei  once   cured   the   Emperor   Toba   of   a   grave  illness when he showed that the emperor’s  favorite   mistress,   Tamamo   no   Maye,   was  actually a nine-tailed fox who had bewitched  him. Sometimes he is portrayed in a wizard’s  competition, conjuring white mice from an  empty box.  See also:   abe no yasuna  Abe   no   Yasuna   In   Japanese   mythology,  poethero   who   married   a   beautiful   woman,  Kuzunoha, who originally was a white fox.  One day as Abe no Yasuna was walking in the  gardens of the temple of the rice god, Inari,  reciting his poems aloud, a party of nobles  passed by in pursuit of a fox. They were after  the fox for its liver, which was used in medicine.  The fox ran into the temple gardens, stopping  near Abe, who caught the animal and hid it in  the folds of his kimono. The pursuers gave up  the chase and left the area, and Abe freed the  fox. A year later Abe fell in love with a beauti -  ful woman, Kuzunoha, who gave birth to a  boy, Abe no Seimei, noted in Japanese legend  as a magician. Soon after his birth she died of  a fever. Three days later she appeared to her  husband in a dream, telling him not to weep, as  she was the fox he had saved earlier.  See also:   abe no seimei; inari  Abere   In   Melanesian   mythology,   a   wild  woman, seducer and often slayer of men.  See also:   mesede  Abezi-thibod   (the father who is devoid of  counsel)   In Jewish mythology, an evil spirit  who   fought   against   Moses   but   was   finally  drowned with the Egyptians in the Red Sea,  where he is kept a prisoner under a pillar.  See also:   moses  Abgar   In Christian legend, a king of Edessa  who corresponded with Jesus. Jesus left no  written records, but Christian legend has sup -  plied them in the form of a correspondence  with Abgar. In one letter Abgar asks “Jesus the  good Savior” to come to heal him because “it  is reported that you cause the blind to see, the  lame to walk, do both cleanse lepers, and cast  out unclean spirits and devils.” Abgar’s letter  is answered by Jesus saying he must “fulfill all  the ends” of his mission but will send after his  Ascension to heaven one of his disciples “who  will cure” the king’s disease.     Abenamar and King Don Juan

=== 페이지 22 ===
These unhistorical letters are reproduced  in Eusebius’   Ecclesiastical History,   written in the  fourth century. In a later addition to the letters  there is one in which Jesus sends a portrait of  himself on a cloth used to wipe his face. Upon  touching the portrait, Abgar is cured of his  illness. As fantastic as the letters are, some  clergymen, both Catholic and Protestant, have  defended them as genuine. Up to the middle  of the 19th century it was common in some  English homes to have the letters framed with  a portrait of Christ.  See also:   jesus christ  Abhinna   In Buddhism, supernatural knowl -  edge   or   insight,   possessed   by   the   Buddha  and those who have been enlightened. One  Buddhist   text   tells   of   the   Buddha   and   a  disciple   discussing   Abhinna.   The   disciple  asked: “Can an humble monk, by sanctifying  himself, acquire the talents of supernatural  wisdom called Abhinna and the supernatu -  ral powers called Iddhi?” The Buddha then  asked: “Which are the Abhinnas?” The dis -  ciple replied: “There are six Abhinnas: (1) the  celestial eye; (2) the celestial ear; (3) the body  at will or the power of transformation; (4) the  knowledge of the destiny of former dwellings;  so as to know former states of existence; (5)  the faculty of reading the thoughts of others;  and   (6)   the   knowledge   of   comprehending  the finality of the stream of life.” The sixth  Abhinna   is   possessed   only   by   enlightened  beings. Spiritually advanced beings may pos -  sess the other five.  See also:   buddha, the  Abigail   (a father’s joy)   In the Bible, O.T.,  a beautiful woman; wife of Nabal (the fool),  a wealthy sheep owner. She supported David  with food and drink during his exile from King  Saul,   when   her   husband   refused   him   help.  When Nabal died, David married Abigail (1  Sam. 25:2–42). The name Abigail is used in  Elizabethan writings to signify a lady’s maid  and is found in works of Christopher Marlowe,  Beaumont, and Fletcher. In the neoclassic age,  Pope, Swift, and Fielding also used the name,  but their use may partly derive from Abigail  Hill (Mrs. Masham), waiting woman to Queen  Anne. Rubens painted an   Abigail.  See also:   david; saul  Ab Kin Xoc   In Mayan mythology, god of  poetry, also known as Ppiz Hiu Tec.  abomination of desolation   In the Bible,  a phrase used by Jesus (Matt. 24:15) as a sign  of the approaching destruction of Jerusalem.  It   probably   refers   to   the   statue   set   up   in  the Temple by either heathens or Romans.  Reference is found in the Book of Daniel (9:27,  11:31, 12:11) in the Old Testament. The term  is now used for something that is destructive  or hateful.  Abore   In   the   mythology   of   the   Warau  Indians of the Guianas of South America, a  culture hero. The evil frog woman Wowta  made Abore her slave when he was a young  boy, but when he grew up, she wished to marry  him. Abore lured Wowta toward a hollow tree  that he had filled with honey, Wowta’s favorite  food. When she saw the honey, she became  so excited that she got stuck in the hollow  tree. Abore then fled in a canoe, reaching the  land of the white man, to whom he taught the  arts of civilization. Wowta eventually escaped  from the tree by turning herself into a small  frog.  abracadabra   A   medieval   kabalistic   charm  said to be made up of the Hebrew words   ab  (father),   ben   (son),   and   ruach   acadsch   (holy  spirit). The charm was first used in the second  century as a powerful antidote against ague,  flux, toothache, and numerous other ailments.  The word was written on parchment and sus -  pended from the neck by a linen thread.  See also:   abraxas  abracadabra   

=== 페이지 23 ===
Abraham   (father   of   a   multitude?)   In   the  Bible, O.T. (Gen. 11:26–17:4), the first Patriarch,  the founder of the Hebrew people, who was at  first called Abram; son of Terah; father of Isaac.  Abraham was brought up worshipping many  gods;   then   Yahweh,   the   Hebrew   cult   god,  revealed himself to Abraham. As a young man  Abraham married his half sister Sara, later called  Sarah, and then, under the direction of Yahweh,  moved from Ur to Haran. He was driven by  famine to Egypt and was accompanied by his  nephew Lot. In Egypt he told Sarah to pretend  she was his full sister and not his wife, for he  feared he would be killed. Pharaoh took Sarah  into his harem, and Yahweh sent a plague on  Egypt. When Pharaoh discovered he had taken  Abraham’s wife, he sent Abraham and his wife  back to Canaan (Genesis repeats this tale at  the court of King Abimelech). Abraham settled  in Mamre, and Lot moved to Sodom. Sarah,  who had been barren, gave her maid Hagar to  Abraham for childbearing, so she could claim  the child as her own. When Hagar bore Ishmael  to Abraham, the child became a source of con -  tention between Sarah and Hagar. At one point  Hagar and Ishmael were sent into the desert to  die, but they were saved by an angel of Yahweh.  The Lord blessed Abraham, appearing to him  one day with two companions (often portrayed  in art as three angels). One of the men told him  that Sarah would bear a child. She laughed at  that because she was too old to bear children.  However, a child was born and named Isaac. To  test Abraham’s faith, Yahweh commanded him  to sacrifice his son Isaac, but an angel of Yahweh  stopped him at the last moment. When Sarah  died at 127 years of age, Abraham bought a cave  for her resting place at Machpelah. At the end  of his life Abraham gave all of his possessions to  Isaac. Then Abraham “died in a good old age,  an old man, and full of years; and was gathered  to his people” (Gen. 25:8). Nonbiblical works  that   deal   with   Abraham   are   The   Apocalypse  of Abraham,   which tells of his youth and his  journey to heaven escorted by the angel Jaoel,  and   The Testament of Abraham,   which tells of  Abraham’s death. In the latter the archangel  Michael is sent to fetch Abraham to heaven.  Abraham, who does not want to die, is shown  heaven and the judgment of the dead and then  returned to earth. There he is tricked into giv -  ing his hand to the Angel of Death.  In medieval Christian belief Abraham was  looked on as a prefiguration of Christ. His  meeting with the high priest Melchizedek (Gen.  14:18–24), who blessed bread and wine, was seen  as a prefiguration of the Last Supper of Jesus  and the institution of the Holy Eucharist. Abra -  ham’s meeting with the three young men (Gen.  18:1–19) was seen as a symbol of the Christian  Trinity and the sacrifice of Isaac as a symbol of  the crucifixion of Jesus, God the Father sacrific -  ing his only Son. In Islamic tradition Abraham’s  sacrifice took place on the site of the Mosque of  Omar at Jerusalem. In Islam, Abraham is called  Khalilu’illah (the friend of Allah). In Christian  art, Abraham is portrayed as a patriarch with  a full beard, and sometimes carrying a knife,  alluding to the sacrifice of Isaac. Dierick Bouts’s  Abraham Being Blessed by Melchizedek   portrays the  patriarch in rich medieval garb.  See   also:   isaac; ishmael; melchizedek;  sarah; sodom Abraham receives God’s promise of a son     Abraham

=== 페이지 24 ===
Abraxas   Name of a god or demon found on  Gnostic gems and amulets from the second  century   c.e.   Abraxas’s name was used in various  magical rites. The name denoted the Supreme  Being, the source of 365 emanations, the sum  of the numbers represented by the Greek let -  ters to which numerical equivalents had been  assigned. The god appears on amulets with the  head of a cock or a lion and the body of a man  with legs that terminate in scorpions, holding  in his right hand a club or flail and in his left  a round or oval shield. The word   abracadabra,  according to some scholars, is derived from  Abraxas. He appears in   The Book of the Angel  Raziel,   a mystical work. In Hermann Hesse’s  novel   Demian   (1917), Abraxas is used as a sym -  bolic representation of the realm “beyond good  and evil.”  See also:   abracadabra; gnosticism  Absalom   (father is peace, prosperity)   In the  Bible, O.T., King David’s third son, known  for his physical beauty. He plotted against his  father and “stole the hearts of the men of Israel”  (2 Sam. 15:6). Riding on a mule in the decisive  battle at Ephraim, Absalom was caught by his  long hair in an oak tree. He was found by one  of David’s men, who killed him even though  David did not want him killed. David lamented  his death: “O my son Absalom, O Absalom,  my   son,   my   son!”   (2   Sam.   19:4).   William  Faulkner picked up the lament for the title of  his novel   Absalom, Absalom!   The English poet  Dryden gave the name Absalom to the duke of  Monmouth, Charles II’s natural son, in his sat -  ire   Absalom and Achitopel   (1681), which attacks  Puritan attempts to exclude the duke of York  from the throne of England because, although  the legitimate heir, he was a Roman Catholic.  See also:   david  Absyrtus   In Greek mythology, son of King  Aeetes of Colchis; brother of Medea. In her  flight from Colchis with her lover Jason, Medea  cut Absyrtus into pieces and threw them one by  one into the sea, so that Aeetes, stopping to  pick them up, would be delayed in his pur -  suit of the lovers. Some variant accounts say  Medea killed Absyrtus in Colchis, others, near  Istria. Still other accounts say Absyrtus was not  killed by Medea but arrived safely in Illyrium.  Ovid’s   Tristia   (3.9) tells the tale of Medea and  Absyrtus, which is alluded to in Shakespeare’s  Henry VI, Part II   (5.2.59). Other works deal -  ing with the tale include Apollonius Rhodius’s  Argonautica   (4.3303—482) and Apollodorus’s  Bibliotheca   (Library) (1.9.24).  See also:   jason; medea  Abuk   and   Garang   In African mythology  (Dinka of Eastern Sudan), the first woman and  man; they were tiny and made of clay. When a  pot in which they were placed was opened, they  grew larger. The Great Being allotted them  one grain of corn each day, but Abuk became  selfish and planted more. While doing this, she  struck the supreme god on the toe. As a result  he retreated and cut the rope that connected  heaven and earth. The Dinka associate Abuk  with produce, gardens, grain, and waters. She  is also the patron of all women. Her symbol is  a snake.  See also:   adam and eve; ask and embla;  khadau and mamaldi; snake Absalom  Abuk and Garang   

=== 페이지 25 ===
Acamas   (untiring)   In   Greek   mythology,  son of Theseus and Phaedra; brought up with  his brother Demophon by Elephenor, king of  Euboea. He was sent with Diomedes as ambas -  sador to Troy to persuade King Priam to send  Helen back in peace. After the destruction of  Troy, he and his brother restored Theseus to  the Attica throne. They then led a colony from  Athens to Cyprus, where Acamas died. Acamas  was one of the Greeks inside the wooden horse  during the siege of Troy. Acamas also is the  name of a son of Antenor mentioned in Homer’s  Iliad   (book 11), as well as the name of a captain  of the Thracians, Trojan allies who were killed  by Ajax, according to Homer’s   Iliad   (book 11).  See also:   ajax; antenor; diomedes; helen  of troy;   iliad, the;   khadau and mamaldi;  theseus  Acantha   (thorn)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  nymph who was loved by Apollo and was trans -  formed into the acanthus flower.  See also:   apollo  acanthus   A large-leafed plant common in  the Mediterranean region. In Greek legend the  Athenian architect and sculptor Callimachus  one day happened to pass a tomb, near which  he saw an acanthus plant enfolding both a tile  and a basket. He was inspired by the sight to  design a capital for a column, since known  as   the   Corinthian   order.   According   to   an  earlier Greek legend, a young girl died, and  her devoted nurse collected her trinkets and  ornaments and placed them in a basket near  her tomb and covered them with a tile. The  nurse set the basket down on an acanthus root,  whose stalks and leaves grew up enfolding the  basket. It was this tomb that Callimachus saw.  In medieval Christian symbolism, the acanthus  signified “the awareness and the pain of sin” as  well as heaven.  Acarnan   (a   fish,   probably   the   labrax)   and  Amphoterus   (both)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, sons of Alcmaeon and Callirrhoë. When  their mother heard of their father’s murder by  Phegeus and his sons, she prayed to Zeus (who  was her lover) to let her sons grow up at once  into men to avenge his death. Her prayer was  granted, and her two sons killed Phegeus and  his sons. Acarnan and Amphoterus then took  the jewels of Harmonia and offered them at  the shrine at Delphi. Later the two founded  a kingdom called Acarnania, named after the  elder brother, Acarnan.  See also:   alcmaeon; callirrhoë; delphi;  harmonia; zeus  Acastus   (maplewood)   In Greek mythology,  king of Iolcus, a son of Pelias and Anaxibia;  Acastus was one of the Argonauts and a mem -  ber of the Calydonian boar hunt. His sisters  were persuaded by Medea, who was a witch,  to cut up their father, Pelias, and boil him  to   make   him   young   again.   They   followed  Medea’s advice, which was a trick to mur -  der Pelias. When Acastus discovered this, he  drove Medea and her lover, Jason, from the  land and instituted funeral games in honor  of his murdered father. During these games  Hippolyte (or Astydameia), wife of Acastus,  fell in love with her husband’s friend, Peleus.  When Peleus ignored her sexual advances, she  accused him of attempting to rape her. Soon  afterward, while Acastus and Peleus were hunt -  ing on Mount Pelion, Acastus took Peleus’s  sword after he had fallen asleep. As a result,  Peleus, unable to defend himself, was nearly  killed by the centaurs. He was saved by either  Chiron or Hermes (ancient accounts differ).  Peleus later returned and killed Acastus and his  wife. Acastus is the father of Laodameia and  is mentioned in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 8).  See   also:   argonauts; centaur; hermes;  hippolyte; jason; medea; peleus  Acca   Larentia   In   Roman   mythology,   an  ancient Italian earth goddess whose feast was  celebrated on 23 December; mother of the  Lares. Roman accounts vary. In some she is  said to have been the nurse of Romulus and     Acamas

=== 페이지 26 ===
Remus; in others, the mistress of Heracles and  the wife of a rich Etruscan called Tarutius.  She was believed to have left great possessions  either to Romulus or to the Roman people.  Acca Larentia also is said to have had 12 sons,  called the Arval Brothers, one of whom was  sacrificed each year. She may be connected  with Larunda, a Sabine goddess whose feast  and sacrifices also were made on 23 December.  Acca Larentia is also the name of a companion  of Camilla in Vergil’s   Aeneid.  See also:   aeneid, the;   heracles; romulus  and remus  Accolon   of   Gaul   In Arthurian legend, a  knight loved by Morgan le Fay, sister and enemy  of King Arthur. Morgan le Fay gave Accolon  the scabbard of King Arthur’s sword, which  protected its owner from bleeding, no matter  how severely wounded. Despite this, however,  King Arthur eventually killed Accolon.  See also:   arthur; morgan le fay  Acestes   (healer)   In   Greek   and   Roman  mythology, a king of Eryx; son of the Sicilian  river god Crimisus and a Trojan woman, Egesta  (or Segesta) who was sent by her father to  Sicily to escape from monsters menacing the  area around Troy. Acestes founded the town of  Segesta. There he hospitably received the Trojan  hero Aeneas after he fled from Troy. Acestes  helped Aeneas bury his father on Mount Eryx,  and in commemoration of this deed Aeneas  built a city there called Acesta. The story of  Acestes is told in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 5).  See also:   aeneas  Achates   (agate)   In Roman mythology, the  faithful friend of the hero Aeneas in Vergil’s  Aeneid.   His devotion to Aeneas was so great  that the term   fidus Achates   (faithful Achates)  became synonymous with loyalty.  Acheflour   In   some   Arthurian   legends,  mother of Perceval and sister of King Arthur.  She was married to Bliocadrans, one of the 12  knights of Wales, who was killed in a tourna -  ment. Not wishing their son Perceval to fol -  low in his father’s footsteps, after his death,  Acheflour pretended to go on a pilgrimage to  St. Brandan in Scotland, but left instead for the  Waste Forest. There she brought up her son  without any knowledge of fighting. She warned  Perceval that men in armor were devils and  must be avoided.  See also:   arthur; perceval  Achelous   (he who drives away grief?)   In  Greek mythology, the oldest of the river gods,  son of Oceanus and Tethys; also the name of the  river in northwestern Greece that forms part of  the boundary between Aetolia and Acarnania.  Achelous was the eldest of the 3,000 sons of  Oceanus and Tethys and was the father of the  Sirens. As a water god, Achelous was capable  of metamorphosis and could turn himself into  a serpent or an ox. In the form of an ox, when  fighting with Heracles for the possession of  Deianira, he lost one horn, which was later  Hercules and Achelous in the form of a bull  (after Rosso Fiorentino)  Achelous   

=== 페이지 27 ===
returned in exchange for the horn of Amalthea.  Achelous was worshipped all over Greece and  its colonies, especially Rhodes, Italy, and Sicily.  At Dodona the oracle’s answers always con -  tained an injunction to sacrifice to Achelous.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 8) tells of the god.  Milton refers to the horn of Achelous in his  Animadversions Upon the Remonstrant’s Defence,  in which he writes: “Repair the Acheloian horn  of your dilemma how you can.” Rubens portrays  the god in his painting   The Feast of Achelous.  See also:   amalthea; deianira; heracles;  oceanus; sirens  Acheron   (woeful)   In Greek mythology, river  believed to lead to the underworld. Homer,  Vergil, and other ancient poets made Acheron  the principal river of Hades. The rivers Cocytus,  Phlegethon, and Styx were believed to be its  tributaries. In Dante’s   Divine Comedy,   Acheron  forms the boundary of hell, and on its shore all  of those who have died in the wrath of God wait  to be ferried across by Charon. The origin of the  river is explained to Dante by the poet Vergil.  Shakespeare’s   Macbeth   (3.5.15) alludes to “the  pit of Acheron,” in   Titus Andronicus   (4.3.44) it  is a “burning lake,” and in   A Midsummer Night’s  Dream   (3.2.357)   the   heaven   is   carved   “with  drooping fog as black as Acheron.” Milton’s  Paradise Lost   (2.578) makes Acheron one of the  four infernal rivers, calling it “sad Acheron of  sorrow, black and deep.” Acheron, according to  some European poets, stands for hell itself.  See also:   charon; hades; phlegethon; styx  Achilles   (possibly,   bane   of   the   army)   In  Greek   mythology,   hero,   demigod,   son   of  Peleus   and   the   Nereid   Thetis;   married   to  Deidamia; father of Neoptolemus (Pyrrhus);  father of Caistrus by Penthesilea; originally  called Ligyron.  According to Homer, Achilles was brought  up by his mother, Thetis, together with his older  cousin, Patroclus. Achilles was taught both war  and eloquence by Phoenix and the art of healing  by the centaur Chiron, his mother’s grandfather.  Accounts written after Homer added numer -  ous details to Achilles’ youth. According to one  ancient account, Thetis, in an effort to make  Achilles immortal, anointed him with ambrosia  by day and held him in a fire at night to destroy  whatever mortal element he had derived from  his father, Peleus. One night Peleus saw the boy  over the fire and made an outcry. Thetis, angry  at the intrusion, left her son and husband and  returned to the Nereids. Peleus then took the  motherless boy to Chiron on Mount Pelion.  There the boy was fed on the entrails of wild  animals. At the age of six, he was so strong and  swift that he killed wild boars and lions and  caught stags without a net or hounds. In a later  variation of the myth, Thetis dipped the child  Achilles into the river Styx, making him invul -  nerable except for the heel by which she held  him, the spot in which he later receives his death  blow—thus, the expression “Achilles heel.”  In another version, Thetis, alarmed by the  prophecy of Calchas that Troy could not be  taken without the help of Achilles and knowing  that he would die in the effort, took the nine-  year-old boy to the island of Scyros, where, in  female dress, he grew up among the daugh -  ters of King Lycomedes. Calchas betrayed his  whereabouts,   and   Odysseus   and   Diomedes  unmasked the hero. Disguised as a merchant,  Odysseus spread out female ornaments before  the maidens, as well as a shield and a spear.  Suddenly, a trumpet sounded the call to battle.  The girls fled, but Achilles clutched the arms  and said he was ready to fight.  The Embassy to Achilles   (John Flaxman)   0   Acheron

=== 페이지 28 ===
During the first nine years of the Trojan  War Achilles led the Greeks on plundering  excursions around Troy, destroying 11 inland  and 12 seacoast towns.  Angered when Agamemnon took the young  girl Briseis, Achilles’ mistress, Achilles drew  back from the fight, and as a result the Tro -  jans took the Greeks’ camp and set their ships  on fire. Achilles then relented to the extent  of allowing Patroclus, wearing the armor of  Peleus,   to   lead   the   Myrmidons   into   battle.  Although Patroclus drove the Trojans back, he  was killed by Hector, who took Peleus’s arms  from Patroclus’s dead body. Grief for his male  lover Patroclus and thirst for vengeance at last  overcame   Achilles’   hatred   for   Agamemnon,  and he reentered the Trojan War. Furnished  with new arms by the smith god Hephaestus,  Achilles went out against Hector, the Trojan  hero, and eventually killed him. Homer’s   Iliad  ends with the burial of Hector and leaves the  ultimate fate of Achilles untold.  According to some accounts, Achilles’ fate  was one he had chosen himself: an early death  with   undying   fame   rather   than   a   long   but  inglorious life. Near the Seasean Gate he was  struck by the shaft of Paris, which was guided  by Apollo. In a variant account the shaft struck  Achilles in his one vulnerable heel. After Achil -  les’ death the Greeks and Trojans fought over  his body until Zeus sent down a storm to end  the fight. In Homer’s   Odyssey,   Achilles’ spirit  descended to the underworld, where he later  met Odysseus, who was journeying to the land  of the dead. In non-Homeric variant accounts,  Thetis snatched her son’s body out of its burn -  ing pyre and carried it to the island of Leuke  at the mouth of the Danube, where the trans -  figured hero lives on, sovereign of the Pontus  and husband of Iphigenia. Other myths place  Achilles in Elysium with Medea or Helen as his  wife. Greeks worshipped Achilles at his tomb  on the Hellespont, where, according to another  account, he appeared to Homer in the full blaze  of his armor and struck the poet blind.  Dante’s   Divine Comedy   places Achilles in the  Second Circle of Hell, among those who met  their death through love. The Italian poet says  of him, alluding to popular medieval myth, that  “he fought with love at the last.” This refers  to the widespread medieval legend that Achil -  les was killed by the treachery of Paris in the  temple of Apollo Thymbraeus in Troy. Achil -  les had been lured there by the promise of a  meeting with Polyxena, with whom he was in  love and whom the Trojans offered to him if he  would desert to their cause. Instead of meeting  Polyxena he was killed by Paris. Lully’s opera  Achille et Polyxène   (1687) is based on this medi -  eval variation of the Achilles myth.  In addition to   Troilus and Cressida,   where  Achilles is a main character, Shakespeare men -  tions him three times. In   Love’s Labour’s Lost  (5.2.635) and the narrative poem   The Rape of  Lucrece   (1424), Achilles is one of the figures in  the painting of Troy. In the play   Henry VI, Part  II   (5.1.100), Achilles’ spear is mentioned:  That gold must round engirt these brows  of mine,  Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles’  spear,  Is able with the change to kill and cure.  This magic spear had wounded King Tele -  phus, who learned from the oracle that only  Achilles, who had inflicted the wound, could  Thetis Entreating Zeus to Honor Achilles  (John Flaxman)  Achilles   

=== 페이지 29 ===
cure him. Shakespeare’s source was probably  Arthur Golding’s translation of Ovid’s   Meta -  morphoses   (book 12), which says: “I did wound  King Teleph with his speare, and when he lay  uppon the ground, / I was intreated with the  speare to heale him safe and sound.” Chaucer,  in The Squire’s Tale, part of   The Canterbury  Tales,   also refers to the power of the spear of  Achilles, both to kill and to cure. The plant  Achillea (milfoil), named after the hero, is sup -  posed to have the power to heal.  The Greek philosopher Zeno told a para -  dox, titled   Achilles and the Tortoise,   in which  Achilles and a tortoise have a race. The hero  runs 10 times as fast as the tortoise, which has  a 100-yard start. Achilles, however, can never  overtake the tortoise because in the time it takes  him to cover the 100 yards to where the tortoise  started, the tortoise has covered 10 yards; while  Achilles is covering those 10 yards, the tortoise  has gained another yard, and so on.  More then 50 operas have been written of  the subject of Achilles. Notable among them  are Pietro Mestastasio’s libretto   Achilles in Scyros  (1736) and Hugo von Hofmannsthal’s libretto  Achilles auf Skyros,   which was set to music by E.  Wellesz in 1929. Paintings depicting Achilles  include   Achilles at the Court of Scyros   by Nicolas  Poussin and Peter Paul Rubens’s   Thetis Dips  Achilles in the Styx   and   Achilles Kills Hector.  See also:   agamemmnon; calchas; centaur;  deidamia; diomedes; homer; odysseus;   odys -  sey, the;   patrocles; peleus; penthesilea; styx;  thetis; zeus  Acidalia   In Greek and Roman mythology,  name given to Aphrodite (Venus), goddess of  love, after she had washed in the same fountain  as the Graces in Boeotia, a district in central  Greece   bordering   on   Attica.   Both   Vergil’s  Aeneid   (book 1) and Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 5) men -  tion Acidalia.  See also:   aphrodite; venus  Acontius   of   Cea   (spear-man)   In   Greek  mythology, a poor young man who fell in love  with Cydippe, daughter of a rich Athenian  nobleman. Acontius carved an oath on an apple  (or orange or quince). He gave the fruit to  Cydippe, and she read out the oath, which said,  “I swear by Artemis’s Temple that I will marry  no one but Acontius.” Alarmed at the prospect  of a poor match for their daughter, her parents  went to the Delphic oracle for guidance and  were told to let the lovers marry. Acontius’s  story is in one of Ovid’s   Heroides   (21), verse let -  ters from women of both myth and history to  their absent lovers and husbands.  See also:   artemis; delphi  Acrisius   (lacking   judgment)   In   Greek  mythology, king of Argos, son of Abas and  Aglaia; great-grandson of Danaus; and brother  of Proteus. After an oracle told Acrisius that  a son of his daughter Danaë would kill him, Briseis Leaving Achilles’ Tent   (John Flaxman)  Achilles Contending with the Rivers  (John Flaxman)   2   Acidalia

=== 페이지 30 ===
Acrisius shut her up in a tower, but Zeus came  to her as a shower of gold (urine), and she bore  a   son   named   Perseus.   When   Perseus   grew  up, he went with his mother to seek Acrisius,  who had fled from Argos, fearing the truth of  the oracle. Perseus found Acrisius at Larissa  in Thessaly and killed him unawares with a  discus. His tale is told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 4).  See also:   aglaia; danaë; perseus; proteus;  ovid; zeus  Actaeus   (of   the   coast)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, first king of Attica and father of Agraulos.  Agraulos married Cecrops, whom the Athenians  called their first king, though Actaeus ruled  before him.  See also:   cecrops  Actis   (beam of light)   In Greek mythology,  son of Helios and Rhode; brother of Candalus,  Cercaphus,   Macar,   Ochimus,   Tenages,   and  Triopas. Actis and his brothers were the first  to sacrifice to Athena. He founded Heliopolis  in Egypt. The Colossus of Rhodes was erected  in his honor.  See   also:   athena;   helios;   colossus   of  rhodes  Adachigahara   In Japanese folklore, a canni -  balistic woman spirit, portrayed with a kitchen  knife, sometimes preparing to kill a child.  According to one legend, she was a woman  of high rank attached to the court of a prince  who suffered from a strange disease. The rem -  edy required obtaining the blood of a child  born during a certain month. Adachigahara, a  faithful servant, killed various children in order  to cure her master. When the cure was success -  ful she confessed her guilt but was pardoned.  Another legend tells how one winter eve -  ning a pilgrim came to the door of her hut  and asked permission to spend the night in  her kitchen. Adachigahara at first refused but  finally consented. After a few minutes she went  out, forbidding her guest to look in a certain  room. However, the pilgrim was inquisitive,  opened the door, and found the room full of  human bones and spattered with blood. Taking  his hat and staff, he fled while Adachigahara  was returning to her goblin shape.  See also:   bluebeard  Adam and Eve   (earth man and woman, wife,  or   the   mother   of   all   living?)   In   Jewish,  Christian,   and   Islamic   mythology,   the   first  man and woman.  In Genesis (2:4–4:26) Yahweh Elohim, one  of the names of God, forms Adam (man) from  the earth and gives him life by breathing into  him the breath of life. Yahweh forms Eve from  the rib of the sleeping Adam. Both are placed  in the Garden of Eden and told not to eat fruit  from the Forbidden Tree. The couple do so  and are cast out of the Garden of Eden. Suf -  fering and death enter the world as a result of  their sin. Medieval Christian belief held Adam  to be a prefiguration of Christ, Jesus being the  first spiritual man as Adam had been the first  physical man. According to medieval Christian  belief, Eve, the first mother, foreshadowed the  Virgin Mary or the Church. The Temptation  and Fall were seen by Christians as the fore -  shadowing of the Annunciation to the Virgin  Mary that she would be the mother of Jesus.  Adam and Eve  Adam and Eve    3

=== 페이지 31 ===
In Islamic mythology Allah sent the angels  Gabriel, Michael, and Israfel, one after the  other, to fetch seven handfuls of earth from  different depths and of different colors for the  creation of Adam. The angels returned empty-  handed because Earth foresaw that the new  creature would rebel against Allah and draw  down a curse on Earth. Allah then sent a fourth  angel, Azrael, who accomplished the mission.  Thereafter Azrael was appointed to separate  the souls of men from their bodies at death.  The earth taken by Azrael was carried to Arabia  to a place between Mecca and Tayef, where it  was kneaded by the angels and fashioned into  human form by Allah. The clay was left to dry  for either 40 days or 40 years; then Adam was  born. (Forty is a mystical number in Jewish,  Christian, and Islamic belief.)  Adam’s apple is a folk name for the laryn -  geal cartilage because, according to folk tradi -  tion, the Forbidden Fruit got stuck in Adam’s  throat. Adam’s ale is water, and Old Adam  means man in sin without redemption, accord -  ing to Christian belief.  Adam   and   Eve,   with   the   serpent   who  tempted them, frequently appear in Western  art. Dürer’s   Adam and Eve   is one of the best-  known works.  In Africa the original pair is called Abuk and  Garang; in Norse mythology they are called  Ask and Embla; and in Slavic they are called  Khadau and Mamaldi.  See also:   abuk and garang; allah; ask and  embla; azrael; gabriel; israfel; khadau and  mamaldi; michael; virgin mary  Adamanthaea   In   Greek   mythology,   a  Cretan nurse of Zeus who suspended his cradle  from a tree so that he was neither on earth nor  heaven nor the sea. She had drums and cym -  bals sounded around the tree to drown out his  cries. All of this was done to protect Zeus from  the anger of his father, Cronus, who wished to  swallow his son to prevent Zeus from replacing  him as ruler.  See also:   zeus  Adam   Bell   (redness)   In   medieval   British  legend, hero who appears in a ballad of the  same name. He lived in Englewood Forest,  near Carlisle. Clym of the Clough and William  of   Cloudesly   were   his   companions.   When  William was captured and being taken to his  execution for robbery, Adam and Clym saved  him. All three then went to London to ask the  king’s pardon, which was granted at the queen’s  request. To show their appreciation they all  demonstrated their skill in archery. The king  was so impressed that he named William a  “gentleman of fe” and the other two, yeomen  of the bedchamber.  See also:   clym of the clough  Adapa   (man)   In Near Eastern mythology,  Babylonian hero who lost the gift of immortal -  ity for humankind through a trick of the gods.  The myth of Adapa is found in various texts,  all incomplete, the earliest dating from the 14th  century   b.c.e.   and found at El-Amarna, Egypt.  Adapa was “wise like one of the gods,” being  under the special protection of his father, the god  Ea. Ea gave Adapa “intelligence enough to com -  prehend the design of the world: but he made  him a dying man.” One day Adapa went fishing.  While he was in the middle of the sea, a storm  caused by the south wind capsized Adapa’s boat.  In a fit of rage Adapa cursed the south wind.  “O south wind,” he cried out, “you have  overwhelmed me with your cruelty. I will break  your wings.” (The south wind is often pictured  as a winged bird or monster in Babylonian art.)  As Adapa finished his curse, the wings of  the south wind were destroyed. For seven days  (a number to indicate a rather long though  indefinite period) the wind did not blow over  the sea or earth. When Anu, the god of heaven,  discovered this, he called his god Illabrat to see  why the south wind did not blow.  “Why has the south wind not blown for  seven days across the land?” the god asked  Illabrat.  “My lord, Adapa, the son of Ea, has broken  the wings of the south wind,” Illabrat replied.   4   Adamanthaea

=== 페이지 32 ===
Anu commanded Adapa to appear before  him, and Ea prepared his son Adapa for the  questioning from the god.  “When you come before Anu, you will be  offered the food of death,” he said. “Do not eat  it. You will also be offered the waters of death.  Do not drink. You will be offered a garment.  Put it on. You will be offered oil. Anoint your -  self. Do not forget now what I have told you.”  When Adapa appeared before Anu, he did  as his father had told him and refused the food  and drink offered, even though Anu said to him  it was the food of life and the water of life.  Anu looked at Adapa after he refused and  said, “Why did you not eat and not drink? Now  you cannot live forever, for you refused the  food and water of everlasting life.”  “Ea, my lord,” replied Adapa, “commanded  me not to eat and not to drink.”  Then Anu laughed, for Ea had tricked his  own son, Adapa, keeping for the gods the gift  of immortality.  See also:   anu; ea  Adaro   In Melanesian mythology, sun spirits  who move about in waterspouts, cross from  place to place using rainbows as bridges, or  come to earth during sun showers. They are  part fish, part human. Their chief is Nyorieru.  An Adaro spirit may shoot a man with a flying  fish, causing him to become unconscious. Only  if a special offering is made in time will the  victim recover.  Addanc of the Lake   In the medieval Welsh  Mabinogion,   a monster slain by Peredur, who  uses a magic stone that makes him invisible to  the monster.  See also:   mabinogion, the  adder   A common European viper, often said  to be deaf in world mythology and folklore.  Psalm 58:4–5 reads: “Their poison is like the  poison of a serpent: they are like the deaf  adder that stoppeth her ear.” For medieval  Christianity this signified those people who  would not listen to the Gospel. A 12th-cen -  tury bestiary by Phillippe de Thaon says that  the adder is “sly and aware of evil: when it  perceives people who want to enchant it and  capture it, it will stop up its ears.” St. Augustine  equated the adder with the devil.  See also:   augustine, st.; basilisk  Adharma   (unrighteousness)   In   Hindu  mythology, a son of the god Brahma. He per -  sonified unrighteousness or vice, being called  “the destroyer of all things.”  See also:   brahma  Adi   In Hindu mythology, a son of Adharma.  He tried to avenge his father’s death at the  hands of Shiva by transforming himself into  a snake and entering Shiva’s abode. He then  transformed himself into the beautiful Uma,  but Shiva was not deceived and killed him. In  some texts Adi is a form of the great goddess  Devi, the wife of Shiva, who, when angry with  her husband, took on the demonic form.  See also:   devi; shiva; uma  Adi-Buddha   (first   enlightened   one)   In  Mahayana Buddhism, the primordial Buddha  who “was before all,” infinite, omniscient, self-  existing, without beginning and without end.  He is not, however, a creator god, nor equiva -  lent to the Western concept of God. One myth  tells how all was void when the mystic sound  Om became manifest, from which at his own  will Adi-Buddha was produced. When the world  was created, he revealed himself as a flame issu -  ing from a lotus flower. In Buddhist art of Nepal  he is often portrayed in this form. From Adi-  Buddha came five Dhyani-Buddhas (Buddhas  of Mediation) who are Vairocana, Askhobhya,  Amitabha, Amoghasiddhi, and Ratnasambhava.  See also:   amitabha; amoghasiddhi; dhaya -  nibuddhas; mahayahna; om; vairocana  Adiri   In Melanesian mythology, the land of  the dead, located in the west.  Adiri    5

=== 페이지 33 ===
Aditi   (free, unbounded?)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, a goddess, the “mother of the world,” who,  according to some Hindu texts, is the mother  of both Indra and Vishnu. Aditi’s descendants,  the Adityas, are listed as 12, corresponding  to the months of the year. In the Rig- Veda,  Aditya is one of the names of the sun.  See also:   indra; rig-veda; vishnu  Admetus   (untamed)   In   Greek   mythology,  an Argonaut, son of Pheres and Periclymene  (or Clymene) and husband of Alcestis; father  of Eumelus and Perimele. Admetus took part  in the Calydonian boar hunt and the voyage  of the Argo. Apollo served Admetus for a time  as a shepherd, either from love as a reward for  his piety or to expiate a capital crime. Admetus  wooed Alcestis, the daughter of Pelias, but her  father would give her only to one who could  yoke lions and boars to a chariot. Admetus  accomplished the task with Apollo’s aid. Apollo  then prevailed on the Moirai (Fates) to release  Admetus from death, provided that someone  would volunteer to die in his place. When  Admetus was about to die after being seized by  a sickness, his parents refused to die in his place.  Finally, his wife, Alcestis, died for her husband.  Alcestis was, however, sent back to the upper  world by Persephone, goddess of death, or,  according to a variant myth, was rescued out  of Hades by Heracles. Euripides’   Alcestis   deals  with the tale. The time that Apollo spent with  Admetus is the subject of George Meredith’s  poem “Phoebus with Admetus.”  See also:   alcestis; apollo; argo; argo -  nauts; calydonian boar hunt; hades; hera -  cles; persephone  Adno-artina   In Australian mythology, the  gecko lizard that challenged Marindi, a dog, to  a fight. Marindi was killed, and his blood dyed  the rocks red.  See also:   marindi  Adrammelech   (Adramelech,   Adramelek)  (the lordship of Melech, the king)   In Near  Eastern mythology, a god worshipped by the  people of Sepharvaim.  According to 2 Kings (17:31), the “Sep -  harvites   burnt   their   children   in   fire   to  Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of  Sepharvaim.” In later Jewish folklore Adram -  melech was turned into one of the 10 arch -  demons, who often appeared in animal forms  such as that of a peacock, mule, horse, or lion.  In Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 6:365) the good  angels Uriel and Raphael vanquish Adram -  melech. The German poet Klopstock, in his  epic poem   The Messiah,   calls Adrammelech  “the enemy of God, greater in malice, ambi -  tion, and mischief than Satan, a fiend more  curst, a deeper hypocrite.” Adrammelech may  be derived from the Babylonian god Anu and  the Ammonite god Moloch, to whom children  were sacrificed.  The   name   is   also   used   for   a   son   of  Sennacherib in 2 Kings (19:37), who with  Sharezer,   his   brother,   murdered   his   father  in the temple of the god Nisroch after they  learned their father planned to sacrifice them  to the god. The name appears in Josephus’s  Antiquities of the Jews   (book 16, chapter 8) as  Andromachos and in Greek sources as Adra -  melos and Ardumuzan.  See   also:   anu;   horse;   lion;   peacock;  raphael; sennacherib; uriel  Altar of the god Moloch   6   Aditi

=== 페이지 34 ===
Adrasteia   (inescapable)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a Cretan nymph who was a nursemaid of  Zeus; daughter of Melisseus; sister of Ida. Also  a country near Troy named for Adrastus, who  built a temple to Nemesis. The name also is  given to a daughter of Zeus and Necessity, who  is identified in some accounts as Nemesis, who  is called Adrasteia in Plato’s   Republic.  See also:   nemesis; nymphs; zeus  Adrastus   (he who stands his ground)   In  Greek   mythology,   a   king   of   Argos;   son   of  Talaus   and   Lysimache   (or   Eurynome   or  Lysianassa);   married   to   Amphithea;   father  of   Argeia,   Aegialeia,   Aegialeus,   Cyanippus,  Deipyle, and Hippodameia. Adrastus led the  “Seven against Thebes” in an ill-fated expedi -  tion to restore Polynices, son of Oedipus, to  the throne of Thebes. In a fight between the  three ruling houses in Argos—the Biantidae,  Melampodidae, and Proetidae—Adrastus was  driven out by Amphiaraus. Adrastus fled to his  maternal grandfather, King Polybus of Cicyoun,  and later inherited his kingdom. Adrastus was  reconciled to Amphiaraus, to whom he gave  his sister Eriphyle. He later returned and ruled  over Argos, where one stormy night a great  scuffle was heard outside the palace. Two fugi -  tives, Polynices and Tydeus (one wrapped in  a lion’s skin, the other in a boar’s skin), had  sought refuge in the front court and were fight -  ing for a night’s lodging. Adrastus recognized  this as the fulfillment of an oracle that had  told him to marry his daughters to a lion and  a boar. Adrastus gave his daughter Argeia to  Polynices and Deipyle to Tydeus. He promised  to conduct the two exiles to Thebes and install  Polynices on the throne. This is the subject of  Aeschylus’s play   Seven Against Thebes.   In the  ensuing war only Adrastus escaped destruction  by fleeing on his winged horse Arion. Ten years  later, with the sons (called the Epigoni) of the  slain warriors of this ill-fated expedition and his  son Aegialeus, Adrastus marched on Thebes.  He took the city but lost his son and died of  grief on his way home.  See also:   amphiaraus; argeia; oedipus  Adrian,   St.   (the man from Adria)   (fourth  century)   In Christian legend, a military saint  in northern Europe during the Middle Ages.  Patron of Flemish brewers. Feast, 8 September.  The life of St. Adrian is found in   The  Golden   Legend,   a   collection   of   saints’   lives  written in the 13th century by Jacobus de  Voragine. Adrian was a pagan officer at the  imperial Roman court at Nicomedia. When  some Christians were arrested he witnessed  their strength and was converted, saying he  was to be accounted with them. When the  emperor heard this he had Adrian thrown  into prison. His wife, Natalie, who secretly  was a Christian, ran to prison and “kissed the  chains that her husband was bound with,”  according to   The Golden Legend.   She often  visited her husband in prison, urging him on  to martyrdom. When the emperor heard that  women were entering the prison, he ordered  the practice stopped. But “when Natalie heard  that, she shaved her head and took the habit  of a man, and served the saints in prison and  made the other women do so.”  This state of affairs, however, could not  continue. The saint was eventually martyred  in the most gruesome way. The prison guards  “hewed off his legs and thighs, and Natalie  prayed them that they would smite off his  hands, and that he should be like to the other  saints that had suffered more than he, and when  they had hewn them off he gave up his spirit to  God.” Natalie took her husband’s remains and  fled the city, settling in Argyropolis, where she  died in peace, though she is included among  Christian martyrs in the Roman church calen -  dar of saints.  In Christian art St. Adrian is portrayed with  an anvil in his hand or at his feet. Sometimes  a sword or ax is beside him. His sword was  kept as a relic at Walbeck in Saxony, Germany.  Adrian, St.   

=== 페이지 35 ===
Emperor Henry II used it when preparing to  go against the Turks and Hungarians.  See also:   golden legend, the  Adu Ogyinae   In African mythology (Ashanti  of Ghana), the first man. The Ashanti tell sev -  eral myths concerning the origin of man. One  states   that   on   Monday   night   the   first   man,  Adu Ogyinae, came to the surface of the earth  through holes bored in the ground by a worm.  Adu Ogyinae was the leader of a small group of  seven men and a few women, as well as a leop -  ard and a dog. Of the entire group, only Adu  Ogyinae was not frightened by the new things  he saw on the surface of the earth. By Tuesday  he managed to calm the others, but they did not  begin to build homes until Wednesday. Adu was  killed when a tree fell on him. Then the dog was  sent in search of fire. Meat was cooked with the  flame he brought back and was fed to him to test  whether it was safe. When the dog showed no  signs of illness, all of the others began to eat. The  god of creation then came upon one of the mem -  bers of the group and made him his assistant.  Each year the Ashanti hold ceremonies in the  woods to commemorate the first human beings.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla  Advent   (coming)   In   Christian   ritual,   first  season of liturgical or church year. Its devel -  opment   over   the   centuries   in   the   Western  church was gradual, but by the 13th century  it had come to encompass the four Sundays  before Christmas. Advent was retained in   The  Book of Common Prayer   (1549) of the Church  of England but was rejected by the Calvinists  and some other Reformers. Two basic motifs,  or themes, developed over the centuries. The  first is that of joyous preparation for the Feast  of the Nativity, or Christmas. But parallel to  this joyous note is the second motif of Advent:  preparation for the Second Coming of Christ  when he will judge the world. Thus, the tra -  ditional color for Advent is purple, stressing  the penitential character of the season. During  the Middle Ages a fast was observed, with  weddings, amusements, and conjugal relations  forbidden. The Advent wreath is the principal  symbol of the season. It was generally assumed  that the Advent wreath originated in Lutheran  Germany a few hundred years ago, but recent  scholarship   suggests   a   19th-century   origin.  Advent   and   the   Advent   wreath   have   been  adopted by many other Christian churches. It  consists of a wreath, an ancient symbol of glory  and victory, and four candles, one for each  Sunday in Advent. Three of the candles are  purple; the fourth is rose for   Gaudete   Sunday.  Sometimes   the   center   of   the   wreath   has   a  Christ candle. On the first Sunday of Advent  the first candle is lit, on the second Sunday, the  second is lit, and so on until all four are lit. The  wreath is removed at the Feast of Christmas.  See also:   christmas  Aeacus   (bewailing)   In Greek mythology, first  king of Aegina; son of Zeus by Aegina, a daugh -  ter of the river god Asopus in Philius. Zeus, in  the form of an eagle, had taken Aegina and car -  ried her off to the island named after her, where  Aeacus was born. As king of Aegina, Aeacus  ruled the Myrmidons, people whom Zeus had  transformed from ants to populate the island.  Aeacus was loved by the gods for his piety, and  when a drought desolated Greece, his interces -  sion obtained rain from Zeus. The Greeks built  Aeacus a temple enclosed with a marble wall. The  poet Pindar says that Aeacus helped Poseidon  and Apollo construct the walls of Troy.  Because   Aeacus   was   noted   for   his   jus -  tice, he was made one of the judges over the  dead, along with Minos and Rhadamanthys.  At Aegina and Athens he was worshipped as  a   demigod.   His   sons   by   Chiron’s   daughter  Endeis were Telamon and Peleus, the fathers of  Ajax and Achilles. Another son, Phocus, by the  Nereid Psamathe was killed by his half broth -  ers, who were then banished by their father for  the crime. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 7) and  Hesiod’s   Theogony   (1003–5) tell of Aeacus.  See also:   achilles; ajax; apollo; asopus;  minos; myrimidons; ovid; peleus; poseidon;  rhadamanthys; zeus     Adu Ogyinae

=== 페이지 36 ===
Aeaea   In Greek mythology, a female hunter  who was changed by the gods into an island of  the same name to help her escape the pursuit of  Phasis, a river god. Odysseus stayed on Aeaea  with Circe for a year according to Homer’s  Odyssey.   The poet, however, does not identify  the location of the island. Later writers have  placed it off the western coast of Italy. Cape  Cicero, which is south of Rome and was once  an island, has also been cited as the original  Aeaea.  See also:   homer; odysseus;   odyssey, the  Aëdon   (nightingale, songstress)   In Greek  mythology, daughter of Pandareos, wife of the  Theban king, Zethus; and mother of Itylus,  whom she killed and fed to her husband.  Envious of her sister-in-law Niobe for hav -  ing six sons, Aëdon tried to kill the oldest but  by mistake killed one of her own. She was  changed into a nightingale by Zeus and forever  bewailed her fate.  In a later variant myth Aëdon is the wife  of   Polytechnus   at   Colophon   in   Lydia.   She  angered   the   goddess   Hera   by   boasting   that  she lived more happily with her husband than  Hera with Zeus. Hera sent Eris (strife) to set  a wager between Aëdon and Polytechnus that  whoever finished first the piece of work they  had in hand (he a chair, she a garment) should  be given by the other the present of a slave girl  as a prize. With Hera’s aid Aëdon won. In anger  Polytechnus fetched Aëdon’s sister Chelidonis  on a false pretext from her father’s house and  subdued her. He then presented her to his wife  as her slave. Aëdon did not recognize her sister  dressed in slave garments. One day Aëdon over -  heard Chelidonis lamenting her fate and helped  her plot to kill Aëdon’s son Itylus, cook him,  and feed him to his father, Polytechnus. Learn -  ing the fate of his son, Polytechnus pursued  Chelidonis to her home. But the gods, wishing  to prevent more bloodshed, turned them all into  birds: Pandareos became an osprey; his wife, a  kingfisher; Polytechnus, a pelican; Chelidonis, a  swallow; and Aëdon, a nightingale.  See also:   hera; niobe; zeus  Aegeus   (goatish?)   In Greek mythology, king  of Athens; father of the hero Theseus, son of  Pandion and Pylia; brother of Lycus, Nisus, and  Pallas. With the help of his brothers Aegeus  took Attica from the sons of his uncle Metion,  who had earlier driven out their father, Pandion.  Then, dethroned by Pallas and his sons, Aegeus  was rescued and restored to power by his son  Theseus. Aegeus then slew Androgeos, son of  Minos, and to punish Aegeus, Minos forced  him to send seven boys and seven girls to Crete  every nine years as victims of the Minotaur.  When Theseus set out to free his country from  this tribute, he told his father he would change  the black sail of his ship to a white sail if he suc -  ceeded. But he forgot to switch the sail, and see -  ing the black sail on the returning vessel, Aegeus  believed Theseus had been killed. He threw  himself into the Aegean Sea, which, according  to some accounts, is named after him.  Aegeus had a shrine at Athens where he  introduced   the   worship   of   Aphrodite,   who  had left him childless until he honored her.  Plutarch’s   Life of Theseus   and Mary Renault’s  novels   The King Must Die   and   The Bull from the  Sea   have Aegeus as part of the narrative. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 7) also tells the tale.  See also:   aphrodite; minos; minotaur; pal -  las; theseus  Aegialeia   In Greek mythology, daughter of  Adrastus   of   Argos   and   Amphithea;   wife   of  Diomedes, sister of Argeia, Aegialeus, Cyanippus,  Deipyle, and Hippodameia. In her husband’s  absence during the Trojan War, Aegialeia pros -  tituted herself to her servants, chiefly Cometes,  whom the king had left master of the house.  When Diomedes learned of Aegialeia’s unfaith -  fulness, he settled in Daunia.  See also:   adrastus; argeia; diomedes  Aeginetan   Sculptures   The   marble   pedi -  ments of Athena’s temple at Aegina, portraying  combat between the Greeks and Trojans. They  were rediscovered by the modern world in  1811 and removed to Munich. Athena is seen  in the center as the protector of the Greeks. Of  Aeginetan Sculptures   

=== 페이지 37 ===
the figures in the sculpture, 10 in the west pedi -  ment, representing the contest for the body of  Patroclus, are complete.  See also:   athena; patroclus  Aegir   (the sea)   In Norse mythology, a host  of the gods, the sea god, brother of Kari, the  air, and Loki, the fire-trickster god; married  to Ran, his sister, father of nine daughters,  the waves, or wave maidens. Like his brothers  Kari and Loki, Aegir belonged to a primeval  order of gods, older than the Aesir, the Vanir  giants, dwarfs, or elves. Aegir was portrayed  as a gaunt old man with long white hair and  beard   and   ever-clutching,   clawlike   fingers.  Whenever he appeared above the waters, it  was to destroy ships and take the men and  cargo to his underground kingdom. Aegir’s  servants were Elde and Funfeng, who waited  on guests in his banquet hall under the sea.  In Anglo- Saxon mythology Aegir was called  Eagor.   Whenever   an   unusually   large   wave  came   thundering   toward   a   ship,   its   sailors  would cry, “Look out, Eagor is coming!” In  ancient Saxon times one of every 10 prisoners  was sacrificed to Aegir to ensure that the raid -  ers would return safely. A ship was referred  to by the kenning “Aegir’s horse.” Aegir also  was known as Hlér or Ler (the shelterer) and  Gymir (the concealer). In the   Prose Edda   he is  said to be “well skilled in magic.” Aegir and  Ran appear in William Morris’s   Sigurd the  Volsung and the Fall of the Niblungs.  See also:   aesir; kenning; loki; ran; vanir  aegis   (goatskin)   In   Greek   mythology,   the  shield forged by Hephaestus that had on it the  Gorgon Medusa’s head. When Zeus shook the  aegis, thunder ripped through the heavens. It  was used not only by Zeus but also by Athena  and Apollo. Since the word means goatskin,  the aegis was said in later myth to be the skin  of the goat that had suckled Zeus in his infancy.  When the aegis became part of the iconogra -  phy of Athena, it was portrayed as a shaggy  or scaly skin with a fringe of snakes and the  Gorgon’s head in the middle. Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 8), Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 3), and Milton’s  Comus   (447) are among the literary works that  refer to the shield.  See also:   apollo; athena; gorgons; hepha -  estus; zeus  Aegisthus   (goat strength)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, lover of Clytemnestra and murderer of  Agamemnon; the son of Thyestes by his daugh -  ter Pelopia. He was suckled by a goat (thus his  name) and brought up by Atreus, who had mar -  ried Pelopia. When Atreus’s son Agamemnon  left for Troy, Aegisthus became the lover of  Clytemnestra, wife of Agamemnon. The two  later   killed   Agamemnon   and   in   turn   were  killed by Orestes, Agamemnon’s son. Aegisthus  is one the the main characters in Aeschylus’s  Oresteia,   three plays dealing with the myth. He  also appears in Sophocles’   Electra   and Seneca’s  Agamemnon.  See also:   agamemnon; atreus; orestes  Aegle   (dazzling   light)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, one of the Hesperides, who guarded the  Golden Apples. The name is also that of the  youngest daughter of Asclepius and Epine (or  Lampetia); a sister of Phaethon, who was trans -  formed into a poplar; and beloved of Theseus  when he abandoned Ariadne.  See also:   ariadne; asclepius; golden apples  of the hesperides; hesperides; phaethon;  theseus  Aegyptus   (Greek form of Het-Ka-Ptah, an  ancient city near Egyptian Memphis)  In   Greek   mythology,   son   of   Belus   and  Anchinoë; twin brother of Danaus. Aegyptus  conquered   the   land   of   Melampodes   (black-  feet) and named it after himself (Egypt). He  fathered 50 sons and compelled Danaus’s 50  daughters, against their will, to marry them.  He went to Argos, where his sons had pursued  their brides, and died there of grief on learning  of their deaths at the hands of their wives on  their wedding night. A variant of the myth says  Aegyptus’s only surviving son reconciled him  to his brother Danaus, who was the father of  20   Aegir

=== 페이지 38 ===
the 50 wives. Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library)  (2.1.4–5) tells his tale.  See also:   apollodorus  Aeneas   (praiseworthy)   In Greek and Roman  mythology, Trojan hero appearing in the Latin  epic poem the   Aeneid.   Aeneas was the son  of Anchises and the goddess Aphrodite, the  brother of Lyrus. He was born on the moun -  tains of Ida and brought up until his fifth year  by his brother-in-law Alcathous or, accord -  ing to a variant myth, by the nymphs of Ida.  Though he was a close relative of King Priam  of Troy, Aeneas did not enter the war until  his cattle had been stolen by the Greek hero  Achilles. Priam did not love Aeneas because he  knew that Aeneas and his descendants would be  the future rulers of the Trojans. At Troy he was  highly esteemed for his piety (“pious Aeneas”  he is called in   The Aeneid ), prudence, and valor.  Often the gods came to his assistance. Thus,  Aphrodite and Apollo shielded him when his  life was threatened by Diomed, and Poseidon  snatched him out of combat with Achilles.  His escape from Troy is told in several  variations. In one he makes his way through  the enemy to Ida. In another Aeneas was spared  by the Greeks because he had always sought  peace and the return of Helen to Greece. A  third variation tells how he made his escape  during the confusion following the fall of the  city. In yet another he is said to have formed  a new kingdom out of the wreck of the people  and handed it down to his progeny. Several  cities on Ida claimed Aeneas as their founder.  The myth of Aeneas’s emigrating and found -  ing a new kingdom beyond the seas is post-  Homeric. His tale, as it is known in Western  art and literature, is told in Vergil’s   Aeneid.  Dante, in   The Divine Comedy,   regards Aeneas  as the founder of the Roman Empire. Aeneas  is placed by Dante in limbo in company with  his ancestress Electra, as well as Hector and  Julius Caesar. In British mythology Brutus, the  first king of Britain, is the great-grandson of  Aeneas. In Shakespeare’s   Troilus and Cressida,  the character of Aeneas is not developed, but  in   Julius Caesar   (1.2.112) and   Henry VI, Part  II   (5.2.62) reference is made to Aeneas’s bear -  ing his father, Anchises, on his shoulders. In  Cymbeline   (3.4.60) the hero is “false Aeneas,”  referring to his desertion of Dido.  See   also:   achilles;   aeneid, the;   alcan -  thous; aphrodite; apollo; helen of troy;  poseidon; priam  Aeneid, The   The Latin epic poem by the  Roman poet Vergil (70–19   b.c.e. ) in dactylic  hexameters, telling of Aeneas and the found -  ing of a new home for the Trojans. The poem  was left unfinished at Vergil’s death. In his will  he asked that the work be destroyed, but the  emperor Augustus intervened, and so the poem  Aeneid, The   2   Aeneas

=== 페이지 39 ===
survived. It is the most influential work of  Latin literature and is one of the cornerstones  of world literature.  The Aeneid   is written in 12 books, or sec -  tions. The translation by John Dryden opens  with the well-known lines from book 1:  Arms, and the man I sing, who forc’d by  fate,  And haughty Juno’s unrelenting hate,  Expell’d and exil’d, left the Trojan shore.  Long labors, both by sea and land, he  bore,  And in the doubtful war, before he won  The Latian realm, and built the destin’d  town’  His banish’d gods restor’d to rites divine,  And settled sure succession in his line,  From whence the race of Alban fathers  come,  And the long glories of majestic Rome.  O Muse! the causes and the crimes relate;  What goddess was provok’d, and whence  her hate;  For what offense the Queen of Heav’n  began  To persecute so brave, so just a man;  Involv’d his anxious life in endless cares,  Expos’d to wants, and hurried into wars!  Can heav’nly minds such high resentment  show,  Or exercise the spite in human woe?  Book 1 : Fate sends Aeneas to Latium to found  Rome, but the goddess Juno’s hostility delays  his success. Juno, seeing him and his Trojans in  sight of Italy, bribes Aeolus to raise a storm for  their destruction. One Trojan ship is already lost  when Neptune learns of the plot and calms the  storm. Aeneas escapes, lands in Libya, and rallies  Aeneas   and His Family Fleeing Troy   (after Federico Barocci)  22   Aeneid, The

=== 페이지 40 ===
his men. Venus appeals to Jupiter, who tells her  that Aeneas will be great in Italy. Aeneas’s son  will found Alba, and his son’s sons will found  Rome. Juno will eventually relent, and Rome  under Augustus will rule the world.  Mercury is sent to secure from Dido, queen  of Libya, a welcome for Aeneas. Meanwhile  Aeneas and Achates meet Venus in the forest,  where she is disguised as a nymph. Venus tells  them   Dido’s   story.   Aeneas   in   reply   bewails  his own troubles, but Venus interrupts him  with promises for success. She then changes  before their eyes from nymph into goddess and  vanishes. Hidden in a magic mist, Aeneas and  Achates approach Carthage. They reach the  citadel unobserved and are encouraged when  they see scenes from the Trojan War depicted  on the city walls. Dido appears and takes her  throne. Trojan leaders who Aeneas believed to  have died in a storm come to her as supplicants.  Ilioneus, their spokesman, tells the story of the  storm and asks for help. “If only Aeneas were  here!” he says.  Dido echoes his words. The mist scatters  and Aeneas appears. He thanks Dido and greets  Ilioneus. Dido welcomes Aeneas to Carthage  and prepares a festival in his honor. Aeneas  sends Achates to summon his son Ascanius  and to bring gifts for Dido. Cupid, persuaded  by Venus to impersonate Ascanius and inspire  Dido with love for Aeneas, arrives with the  gifts while the real Ascanius is carried away to  Idalia. The night is passed in feasting. After the  feast Iopas sings the wonders of the firmament.  Dido, bewitched by Cupid, begs Aeneas to tell  her his tale of adventure.  Book 2 : Aeneas tells his tale. The Greeks,  baffled in battle, built a huge wooden horse  in   which   their   leaders   hide.   Pretending   to  abandon the wooden horse, their fleet sails for  Tenedos. The Trojans take the horse into Troy  as a trophy, believing the Greeks have given  up the war. Sinon, a Greek, brought before  King Priam, feigns righteous recriminations  against the Greeks. The Trojans sympathize  and believe his lies of the wrongs done him by  Ulysses (Odysseus in Greek).  Sinon says, “When Greek plans of flight  had often been foiled by storms, oracles fore -  told that only a human sacrifice could purchase  their escape.”  Chosen for the victim, Sinon had fled. He  swears before the Trojans that the wooden horse  is an offering to the goddess Pallas (Athena).  “Destroy it and you are lost,” he says. “Preserve  it in your citadel and your revenge is assured.”  Most of the Trojans believe the lying Sinon.  Laocoön, a priest, does not, however, and is  destroyed when a monster rises from the sea,  killing him and his sons. This is taken as a  sign by the Trojans that they should take the  wooden horse into the city. Cassandra warns  them against doing so, but though she was  gifted with prophecy, she was also cursed with  never being believed.  While Troy sleeps the Greek fleet returns,  and Sinon releases the Greeks from the wooden  horse. The spirit of the dead Hector warns  Aeneas in a dream to flee with the sacred vessels  and images of the gods. Panthus then brings  news of Sinon’s treachery. The city is set aflame  by the Greeks. Aeneas heads a group who wish  to escape. He and his followers exchange armor  with Greeks slain in the night. The ruse suc -  ceeds until they are taken for enemies by their  friends. The Greeks rally, and the Trojans scat -  ter. At Priam’s palace a last stand is made, but  Pyrrhus forces the great gates and the defenders  are massacred. When Aeneas sees the headless  body of Priam, he thinks of his father. Aeneas  hastens home, but his father, Anchises, refuses  to flee. Anchises, seeing a halo about the head  of Aeneas’s son Ascanius, takes it as an omen  and relents. During the escape Creusa, the wife  of Aeneas, is lost. He seeks her. Her dead spirit  appears to him and tells him to flee.  Book 3 : In obedience to oracles the Trojans  build a fleet and sail to Thrace. Seeking to  found a city, they are warned away by the ghost  of Polydorus and visit Anius in Ortygia. Apollo  promises Aeneas and his descendants worldwide  empire if they return to “the ancient mother -  land” of Troy, which Anchises says is Crete.  The Trojans reach Crete only to be thwarted  Aeneid, The   23

=== 페이지 41 ===
again. Drought and plague interrupt this second  attempt to found a city. On the point of return -  ing to ask Apollo for a clearer sign, Aeneas is  told by the gods of Troy in a dream that the  true home of the Trojans is Italy. Landing in the  Strophades, the Trojans unwittingly wrong the  Harpies, whose queen, Celaeno, threatens them  with a famine. Panic-stricken, the Trojans coast  along to Actium, where they celebrate their  national games. They go to Buthrotum, and on  a voyage from Dyrrhachium they get their first  glimpse of Italy. They land and make offering to  Juno, then travel along the coast until they see  Mount Aetna. The book ends with the death of  Anchises at Drepanum.  Book 4 : Dido has fallen in love with Aeneas.  She opens her heart to her sister Anna. Dido  would yield except for her promised loyalty to  her dead husband, Sychaeus. Anna pleads for  Aeneas, and Dido, half yielding, sacrifices to  the marriage gods. Venus reappears and lies  to Juno (goddess of marriage) that she will let  Aeneas marry Dido, and he will be made king  of Carthage. At a hunt Juno sends a storm, and  the lovers shelter in a cave where they make love  and exchange vows. Jupiter sends Mercury to  remind Aeneas of his mission to found a new  home for the Trojans in Italy. Aeneas, terrified  by the message, prepares to leave. Dido pleads  with him, but he says he must obey the gods. In  utter misery Dido, on pretext of burning all of  Aeneas’s love gifts, prepares a pyre and summons  a   sorceress.   Her   preparations   complete,   she  utters a lament. Mercury repeats his warning to  Aeneas, who sets sail. Daybreak reveals his flight,  and Dido, cursing her betrayer, stabs herself.  Book 5 : Aeneas, unaware of Dido’s suicide,  sails   away   to   Acestes   in   Sicily.   He   prepares  funeral games to mark Anchises’ death. Offerings  are paid to the spirit of his dead father. Sicilians  and Trojans assemble for the first contest, a boat  race. Juno schemes to destroy the Trojan fleet  while the games are being held. She inflicts mad -  ness on the Trojan matrons, who are not allowed  to be present at the games, and they set the ships  aflame. Jupiter sends rain and saves all but four of  the ships, and the Trojans depart. Venus prevails  on Neptune, god of the sea, to grant the Trojans  a safe journey in return for the death of the  helmsman, Palinurus, who is drowned.  Book   6 :   The   Trojans   arrive   at   Cumae.  Aeneas visits the Sibyl’s shrine. After prayer  and sacrifice to Apollo, he asks permission to  enter the underworld to visit his father. He  must first pluck the Golden Bough. Vergil  writes (MacKay’s translation):  O sprung of gods’ blood, child of Anchises  of Troy, easy is the descent into hell; all  night and day the gate of dark Dis stands  open; but to recall thy steps and issue to  upper air, this is the task, this the burden.  Some few of gods’ lineage have availed,  such as Jupiter’s gracious favor or virtue’s  ardor had upborne to heaven. Midway all  is muffled in forest, and the black sliding  coils of Cocytus circle it round. Yet if thy  soul is so passionate and so desirous twice  to float across the Stygian lake, twice to see  dark Tartarus, and thy pleasure is to plunge  into the mad task, learn what must first be  accomplished. Hidden in a shady tree is a  bough with leafage and pliant shoot all of  gold, consecrate to nether Juno, wrapped  in the depth of woodland and shut in by  dim dusky vales. But to him only who first  has   plucked   the   golden-tressed   fruitage  from the tree is it given to enter the hid -  den places of the earth. This has beautiful  Proserpine ordained to be borne to her  for her proper gift. The first torn away,  a second fills the place with gold, and the  spray burgeons with even such ore again.  So let thine eyes trace it home, and thine  hand pluck it duly when found; for lightly  and unreluctant will it follow if thine is  fate’s summons; else will no strength of  thine avail to conquer it nor hard steel to  cut it away.  Aeneas sees all of the sights of the under -  world   and   visits   his   father,   Anchises,   who  24   Aeneid, The

=== 페이지 42 ===
Aeneid, The   25  Dream of Aeneas   (Salvator Rosa)

=== 페이지 43 ===
explains to him the mystery of the Transmi -  gration of Souls; and the book closes with the  revelation to Aeneas of the future greatness of  Rome. Aeneas then leaves through the Ivory  Gate and sails to Caieta.  Book 7 : Passing Caieta and Circeii, Aeneas  sails up the Tiber. An embassy is sent to the  Latin   capital   by   the   Trojans.   Latinus   offers  peace to the Trojans, and to Aeneas his daugh -  ter’s hand. (All of this was to fulfill the oracles.)  Juno again intervenes and summons the demon  Alecto, who first excites Amata then Turnus  against the peace. War begins. On the side of  the Latins are the hero Turnus and the heroine  Camilla.  Book 8 : The war now started, Turnus sends to  Diomedes for help, while Aeneas goes to ask aid  of Evander and the Tuscans. Evander receives  him kindly, furnishes him with men, and sends  his son Pallas with him. Vulcan, at the request  of Venus, makes arms for her son Aeneas that  portray the future greatness of Rome.  Book 9 : Turnus takes advantage of Aeneas’s  absence to set some ships on fire, but they  turn into sea nymphs. Turnus then attacks the  Trojan camp. Nisus and Euryalus are sent to  recall Aeneas.  Book 10 : Jupiter calls a council of the gods  and   forbids   them   to   enter   into   the   battle.  Aeneas returns, and the fighting becomes bit -  ter. Turnus kills Pallas; Aeneas kills Lausus and  Mezentius.  Book 11 : Aeneas erects a trophy of the spoils  of Mezentius. A truce is granted for the burying  of the dead. The body of Pallas is sent home.  Latinus then calls a council to offer peace to  Aeneas. Turnus says he will meet Aeneas in  single combat. Camilla is killed. The Latins  are defeated, and Turnus, learning of the news,  hurries to the city, closely followed by Aeneas.  Book 12 : Turnus realizes that he must now  redeem his promise to meet Aeneas in single  combat. The challenge is sent, and the two make  ready. Juno tells the nymph Juturna to aid her  brother Turnus in the battle. The truce is bro -  ken; Aeneas is wounded but is healed by Venus.  In the ensuing combat Aeneas kills Turnus:  He rais’d his arm aloft, and, at the word,  Deep in his bosom drove the shining  sword.  The streaming blood distained his arms  around,  And the disdainful soul came rushing  thro’ the wound.  Vergil’s great poem was read during the  Middle Ages and was consulted as a book of  magic, because the poet had the reputation  of being a magician. Dante chose Vergil as  his guide through hell and purgatory in   The  Divine Comedy. The Aeneid   influenced Spenser,  Tasso, and Milton. The translation by John  Dryden was published in 1697 and has become  an English classic. The first translation of   The  Aeneid   into English verse was by Gavin Doug -  las, bishop of Dunkeld in Scotland, published  in 1553. Henry, earl of Surrey, published his  version in 1557, and William Morris’s version  appeared in 1876.  In musical settings of   The Aeneid,   the Eng -  lish composer Henry Purcell wrote   Dido and  Aeneas   (1689/90) for performance in a girls’  school.   In   1782   German   composer   Joseph  Martin Kraus (1756–1792) wrote   Aeneaus i Car -  thago,   which was performed in 1799, some years  after the composer’s death. The most important  operatic version is that of the French Romantic  composer Hector Berlioz, which was completed  in 1858 in two parts and called   The Trojans.  Though   The   Aeneid   has   generally   been  respected, the English Romantics disliked the  work. Samuel Taylor Coleridge wrote: “If you  take from Vergil his diction and metre, what do  you leave him?” Percy Bysshe Shelley preferred  Lucan, and Lord Byron hated Vergil’s work  intensely.  See also:   aeneas; aeolus; ascanius; dido;  hector; juno; jupiter; laocovn; mercury;  neptune; nymphs; pallas; priam; sinon; venus  Aengus   og   (Angus,   Oengus)   In   Celtic  mythology, son of Dagda, god of love and  beauty, who had a golden harp. His kisses  became birds that hovered invisibly over young  26   Aeneid, The

=== 페이지 44 ===
men and women, whispering thoughts of love  in   their   ears.   Aengus   og   drank   the   Ale   of  Immortality, and four swans circled over him  when he traveled. In James Joyce’s novel   Ulysses  the god is called Aengus of the Birds.  See also:   dagda  Aeolus   (earth destroyer?)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, the god of the winds; son of Hellen and  the nymph Ortheis; married to Enarete; father  of   seven   sons,   Athamas,   Cretheus,   Deion,  Macareus, Perieres, Salmoneus, and Sisyphus,  and seven daughters, Alcyone, Arne, Calyce,  Canale,   Peisidice,   Perimele,   and   Tanagra;  brother   of   Xuthus   and   Dorus.   In   Homer’s  Odyssey   (book 10) Aeolus gives Odysseus the  contrary winds tied up in a bag, but the sailors  let them out, and the ship is blown off course.  On his Aeolian island, floating in the far west,  its steep cliff encircled by a brazen wall, Aeolus  lived in unbroken bliss with his wife and his  sons and daughters, whom he wedded to one  another. Aeolus also appears in Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 1) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11).  Aeolus is called Hippotades in some accounts.  See also:   aeneid, the;   nymphs; odysseus;  odyssey, the;   ovid; sisyphus  Aequalitas   (fairness)   In   Roman   mythol -  ogy, the personification of equity or fairness,  as opposed to justice by the letter of the law.  Aequalitas   was   often   portrayed   as   a   young  woman holding a pair of scales in her left hand.  Aerope   (sky-face)   In Greek mythology, wife  of Atreus; daughter of Catreus of Crete. She  was given by her father to Nauplius to be  sold   abroad.   She   married   Atreus   and   bore  him Agamemnon and Menelaus, and possibly  Anaxibia and Pleisthenes. Aerope was thrown  into the sea by Atreus for her adultery with his  brother Thyestes.  See   also:   agamemnon; atreus; catreus;  menelaus  Aesacus   (myrtle branch)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, son of King Priam of Troy and Arisbe  (or   Alexiroe);   he   learned   the   art   of   inter -  preting   dreams   from   his   maternal   grandfa -  ther, Merops. Priam consulted Aesacus about  Hecuba’s bad dreams prior to the birth of Paris.  Aesacus’s advice was to have the child killed  because he would bring about the destruction  of Troy. Aesacus married the nymph Asterope  (or Hesperia). When he pursued her, she threw  herself into the sea and was changed into a  bird. In despair Aesacus also threw himself  into the sea and was changed into a diver bird  (cormorant). Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11)  and Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library) (3.12.5)  tell the story.  See also:   hecuba; ovid; paris; priam  Aeshma   (Aeshm)   In   Persian   mythology,  archdemon who is the spirit of anger, violence,  and devastation, “occasioning trouble by con -  tests, and causing an increase in slaughter.”  He is the same as the demon Asmodeus who  appears in the Book of Tobit (3:8) in the Old  Testament Apocrypha.  See also:   ahura mazda; asmodeus  Aesir   (god)   In Norse mythology, a race of  gods and goddesses under the leadership of  Odin and opposed to the Vanir. The name may  come from the Indo-European   áss,   meaning  breath, life, or life-giving forces. They were  Balder, Baugi, Bragi, Forseti, Frey, Heimdal,  Hodur, Hoenir, Loki, Njord, Thor, Vilur, Vili,  and Vidar. Another group of deities, called  Vanir, predated the Aesir. The Vanir group  included Boda, Bil, Eir, Fimila, Fjorgyn, Freya,  Frigga,   Frimla,   Fulla,   Gefjon,   Gerda,   Gna,  Hnossa, Horn, Jord, Nanna, Saga, Sit, Siguna,  Skadi, and Vanadis. The two groups fought  but settled their disagreements, all creating  the dwarf Kvasir, from whose blood mead was  made. The Icelandic historian Snorri Sturluson  (13th century) suggests that the Aesir were  “men of Asia” and that to the east there was a  land known as Ásaland.  See   also:   balder;   baugi;   bragi;   freya;  frigga; hoenir; kvasir; loki; njord; odin;  thor; vanir; vili  Aesir   2 

=== 페이지 45 ===
Aesir-Vanir War   In Germanic mythology,  a war fought at the beginning of time that was  concluded by a truce that joined the two war -  ring entities into a single unified group of gods.  The war was precipitated when a mysterious  figure named Gullveig, sometimes called Heid  and other times Freyja, came to the hall of  Odin. There she was attacked but could not be  killed and went on performing   seid,   a form of  magic or divination. Accounts of the war place  more emphasis on the final settlement than on  the details of the battle, and the symbol of the  truce, the mixed spittle Odhrerir, became a  symbol for wisdom, the mead of poetry. The  Vanir are usually viewed as fertility gods who  may have been overrun by a more warlike cult,  the Aesir. Some scholars have tried to associ -  ate the Aesir with the invading Indo-European  tribes, but recent scholarship does not accept  this interpretation, since war in a myth does  not have to have a historical origin.  See   also:   aesir;   odhrerir;   odin;   seid;  vanir  Aesopic fables   Short didactic tales, often  with   animal   characters.   Other   definitions  include “an animal tale with a moral,” and a  popular Greek definition, “a fictitious story pic -  turing a truth.” For the most part these stories  depict human failings, particularly in regard to  pride, arrogance, greed, and folly. Although not  all fables include animals, most do, and they  are often in pairs: the mouse and the lion, the  tortoise and the birds, and so on. Over 350 such  fables have been ascribed to Aesop, a Thracian  slave who lived in the sixth century   b.c.e.  Whether Aesop actually lived is still debated  by some scholars, though he is mentioned in the  works of Herodotus, Aristophanes, and Plato.  He is believed to have been the slave of a man  named Iadmon. Tradition says he was a hunch -  back, born dumb but given the gift of speech  by the goddess Isis for his great devotion to her  cult. His ability to tell tales or fables won him  his freedom, and according to various accounts,  he became counselor to Solon and Croesus.  His good fortune, however, was short-lived.  He was falsely accused and convicted of theft  by the citizens of Delphi, who as punishment  threw him over a cliff to his death. A plague  immediately swept over the city. The citizens,  realizing their guilt, offered “blood money” to  atone for the murder. Herodotus, in his   History  of the Persian Wars   (book 2), says that Iadmon,  grandson of the former Iadmon, “received the  compensation. Aesop therefore must certainly  have been the former Iadmon’s slave.”  However,   the   fame   of   Aesop   continued.  Tradition says he returned to life to fight at the  battle of Thermopylae. A statue was erected to  him in Athens some 200 years after his death.  It was placed before the statues of the Seven  Sages. One Attic vase from about 450   b.c.e.  portrays the fabulist listening to a fox.  One of the most interesting legends in the  life of Aesop concerns his telling of the fable The  Frogs Desiring a King to a mob that was threat -  ening to kill the tyrant Pisistratus, the moral of  the fable being “Let well enough alone!” The  populace knew the evils of Pisistratus but did  not know how evil his successor would be. The  fable is typical in that one of the main ingredi -  ents of many fables is their conservative nature.  Often the moral is one of leaving well enough  alone or supporting the status quo. This is  somewhat ironic because in early times the fable  was used to castigate ruling authorities. About  2    Aesir-Vanir War  Aesop’s   The Frogs Desiring a King

=== 페이지 46 ===
300   b.c.e.   Demetrius Phalereus collected all of  the fables he could find under the title of   Assem -  blies of Aesopic Tales.   This collection, running to  about 200 fables, was used as the basis for a ver -  sion in Latin verse by Phaedrus or Phaeder in  the first century   c.e.   Like Aesop, Phaedrus also  was a slave, freed during the reign of Augustus  or Tiberius. Under Tiberius he published two  books of his fables. His style was ironic, ridicul -  ing the emperor and his minister, Sejanus. After  the death of Sejanus, Phaedrus published a third  book of fables, and a fourth and fifth were added  in his later years. Phaedrus added many fables  of his own to the Aesopic collection, as well as  others collected from various sources.  Babrius, believed to have lived in the second  century   c.e. , wrote ten books in Greek called  Aesop’s Fables in Verse.   They were lost, however,  until 1842, when 123 of the fables were discov -  ered in the monastery at Mount Athos. An addi -  tional 95 were added in 1857, though scholars  have debated how genuine the fables actually  were. The Latin version of Phaedrus, therefore,  was the one that was popular during the Middle  Ages, although it was not credited to Phaedrus,  but to a fictional person named Romulus. By  the time   Romulus’ Aesop   was in circulation, many  tales from various sources, such as those from  the East, had come to be credited to Aesop.  The power of the fables to hold the attention  of audiences throughout the ages attests to their  universal appeal. They are simple, direct, and  well told. These characteristics have made them  particularly popular with illustrators. The first  English edition of Aesop, translated by Caxton  from a French version, was published in 1484.  By the end of the 15th century there were more  than 20 different illustrated editions in Europe.  Among the most famous are those of Mondovi,  Ulm, and Verona, all published between 1476  and 1479. Among the best known later illustra -  tors are Thomas Bewick (1784), Gustave Doré  (1868), Walter Crane (1886), Richard Heigh -  way (1894), Arthur Rackham (1916), Alexander  Calder (1931), Antonio Frasconi (1953), and  Joseph Low (1963).  Although the fables would seem to be ideal  for dramatic musical settings, very few com -  posers have attempted to deal with them. John  Whitaker wrote music for English versions of  Aesop’s fables, and another English composer,  W. H. Reed, wrote an orchestral work,   Aesop’s  Fables.   In 1931 the German composer Werner  Egk composed   Der Löwe und die Maus   ( The Lion  and the Mouse ) for narrator, chorus, and orches -  tra. It was written especially for radio. Egk also  wrote   Moralities,   using three Aesop fables, with  a text by W. H. Auden. James Thurber’s   Fables  for   Our   Times   (1940)   and   George   Orwell’s  Animal Farm   (1945) are modern adaptations  of fables. In 1990 Jim Weiss produced   Animal  Tales,   a tape featuring many of Aesop’s fables.  Boris   Karloff   has   also   performed   fables   on  audiocassette,   and   Mary   Carter   Smith   has  performed,   recorded,   and   published   collec -  tions of the fables. American oral tradition has  converted many of the fables into proverbial  expressions, including sour grapes, the goose  that laid the golden egg, the lion’s share, and  don’t count your chickens before they hatch.  See   also:   delphi; demophon; isis; seven  sages; theseus  Aethra   (bright sky)   In Greek mythology,  mother of Theseus by Aegeus or, according to  another account, by Poseidon. Homer mentions  her as a servant to Helen at Troy, but later Greek  myth adds that when the Dioscuri took Aphidnae  and set free their sister, whom Theseus had car -  ried off, they brought Aethra to Sparta as a slave.  She then accompanied Helen to Troy. When the  city fell, she brought her grandsons Acamas and  Demophon back to Athens. Hyginus’s   Fabulae  (myths, 37) tells her story.  See also:   aegeus; dioscuri; helen of troy;  poseidon; theseus  Afanasiev,   Alexander   Nikolaievitch  (Af a nasyeu, Afanasyeff)   (1826–1871)   Russian  folklorist, compiler of   Russian Folktales   (1855–  1863),   published   in   eight   parts.   Afanasiev’s  work,   which   has   achieved   the   status   of   a  Afanasiev, Alexander Nikolaievitch   2 

=== 페이지 47 ===
Russian classic, was influenced by the Grimms’  collection of German folktales. Based partly on  oral sources, Afanasiev’s work also depended on  published sources, so many present-day schol -  ars dismiss his work as being “too literary” and  lacking research from primary sources. Aside  from this major collection, Afanasiev also pub -  lished   Russian Popular Legends   (1860), which  was banned by the Russian Orthodox Church  as well as the government because it used “vul -  gar” words and was critical of both church and  state. His work was also banned by the Soviets  for the same reasons.  Af and Hemah   (anger and wrath)   In Jewish  folklore, two angels created at the beginning of  the world to execute God’s will.  Afra,   St.   (dust)   (fourth century?)   In Christ-  ian legend, martyr, patron saint of Augsburg,  Germany. Invoked by penitent women. Feast, 5  August.  Afra was a common whore who ran a house  of pleasure, even though she was the daughter  of St. Hilaria. She was assisted in her work by  three girls, Digna, Eunomia, and Eutropia.  One day Narcissus, a Christian priest fleeing  from the pagan authorities, came to her house  for protection. He talked with the girls and  converted   them   to   Christianity.   When   the  police came, all of them were arrested. Afra,  who was brought before a judge who had once  bought her favors, was sentenced to death by  burning. As she prayed, angels bore her soul  to heaven.  Medieval Christian art portrays St. Afra  in a boiling caldron or surrounded by flames.  Sometimes she is suspended from a tree and  beaten or bound to a tree and burned.  Agama   In   Mahayana   Buddhism,   a   term  used   for   the   collection   of   sacred   writings,  roughly equivalent to the Nikaya collection  of Theravada Buddhism, containing the dis -  courses of Buddha on general topics. Because  Buddha’s doctrines were often abstruse and  mysterious, he decided to preach his sermons  in accordance with the intellectual capacity of  his audience. He then divided them into five  categories, with the Agamas devoted to the  doctrine of substantiality.  See also:   mahayana  Agamemnon   (very   resolute)   In   Greek  mythology, king of Mycenae and Argos; son of  Atreus and Aerope; married to Clytemnestra;  father   of   Chrysothemis,   Electra,   Iphigeneia,  Iphianassa,   and   Orestes,   father   of   Chryses  by   his   slave   Chryseis,   and   father   of   Pelops  and Teledamas by Cassandra; and brother of  Menelaus. Agamemnon was commander of the  Greek forces in the Trojan War. Driven from  Mycenae after the murder of Atreus by Atreus’s  brother Thyestes, Agamemnon and Menelaus  fled to Sparta, where King Tynadaeos gave them  his   daughters:   Clytemnestra   to   Agamemnon  and Helen to Menelaus. Menelaus inherited  Tynadaeos’s kingdom, and Agamemnon drove  out his uncle Thyestes from Mycenae; as king  he extended the country’s boundaries. According  to Homer’s   Iliad,   Agamemnon, though vain and  arrogant, was chosen to lead the Greek expe -  dition to rescue his sister-in-law Helen, who  30   Af and Hemah  Aethra and Theseus

=== 페이지 48 ===
Agamemnon   3   Agamemnon

=== 페이지 49 ===
had been abducted by Paris. The expedition  was stalled at Aulis because Agamemnon had  offended Artemis. Calchas, a soothsayer, told  Agamemnon that the goddess could be appeased  only by the sacrifice of Agamemnon’s daughter  Iphigenia (or Iphianassa). Agamemnon tricked  his wife, Clytemnestra, into sending Iphigenia  to Aulis by telling her that Iphigenia was to be  married to Achilles. But at Aulis Iphigenia was  sacrificed despite the protest of Clytemnestra.  Some accounts say that Artemis spared Iphigenia  when the goddess beheld the girl’s innocence.  Agamemnon displayed further arrogance and  invited another plague on the expedition when  he refused to accept a ransom from a priest  of   Apollo,   Chryses,   who   wanted   to   redeem  his   daughter   Chryseis,   who   had   been   given  to Agamemnon as a war prize. Agamemnon  then took Briseis, Achilles’ mistress. In response  Achilles laid down his arms and withdrew from  the   war,   though   he   eventually   relented   and  became the major hero of the Trojan War.  After the Greek victory at Troy, Agamem -  non brought home his spoils, including the  captive princess Cassandra, who had warned  him that he would be killed by his wife. True  to the curse of Cassandra (to be always right  and never believed), he ignored her warning.  His wife, Clytemnestra, prepared a welcoming  bath of purification. When he stepped from the  bath, she wrapped him in a binding garment,  and her lover, Aegisthus, stabbed Agamemnon  while Clytemnestra killed Cassandra.  Agamemnon was worshipped by the Greeks  as a hero. He appears in Homer’s   Iliad   and  Odyssey   (book 4); Aeschylus’s   Agamemnon   and  Choephoroe,   Euripides’   Electra, Iphigenia in Aulis,  Iphigenia in Tauris,   and   Orestes ; Sophocles’   Elec -  tra   and   Ajax ; Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6); Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 12); Seneca’s   Agamemnon ;  and a host of modern works such as T. S. Eliot’s  The Family Reunion,   based on the Greek plays;  Eugene   O’Neill’s   Mourning   Becomes   Electra ;  Sartre’s   Les Mouches   (The Flies); and works by  Giraudoux, Robinson Jeffers, Hofmannsthal,  Racine, Shakespeare, and Tennyson.  See also:   artemis; atreus; calchas; cas -  sandra; electra; helen of troy;   iliad, the;  iphigeneia; orestes; paris; pelops  Agaran   In Arthurian legend, nephew of a  hermit encountered by Lancelot in his quest  for the Holy Grail.  See also:   holy grail; lancelot of the lake  Agastya   (mountain thrower)   Legendary In-  dian sage, author of several hymns in the Rig-  Veda, the sacred collection of hymns.  In the Hindu epic poem   The Ramayana,  Agastya lived in a hermitage on Mount Kunjara,  situated in a most beautiful country to the south  of the Vindhya Mountains. He was the chief of  the hermits of the South, keeping the Rakshasas,  demonic beings who infested the region, under  control. Once he was challenged by a Rakshasa  named Vatapi, who had taken the form of a ram.  Agastya attacked him and ate him up. When  30 0091 Agamemnon Vatapi’s brother Ilvala  tried to avenge the death, he too was killed by  Agastya.  Rama, the hero of   The Ramayana,   visited  Agastya with his wife, Sita. The sage received  them with great kindness, becoming Rama’s  friend, adviser, and protector. He gave Rama  the bow of the god Vishnu, which the hero  used in regaining his kingdom. When Rama  was restored, Agastya accompanied him to his  capital, Ayodhya.  The longer Hindu epic poem,   The Mahab -  harata,   relates the legend of the creation of  Agastya’s wife, Lopamudra. Once Agastya saw a  vision of his ancestors suspended by their heels  in a pit. He was told by them that they could  only be rescued if he had a son. The problem  was that Agastya was not married and had no  mistress. He then formed a girl out of the most  graceful parts of various animals. He took her  secretly into the palace of the king of Vidarbha,  where she grew up as the daughter of the king.  When she came of age, Agastya asked for her  in marriage. The king granted the wish even  though he disliked Agastya.  32   Agaran

=== 페이지 50 ===
Agastya is sometimes called “Ocean Drinker”  in reference to the legend that he once drank an  entire ocean after it offended him. Another  explanation for the title is that he offered his  aid to the gods in their battle with the Daityas  (giants), who had taken refuge in the ocean.  See also:   daitys;   mahabharata, the;   raksha -  sas; rama;   ramayana, the ; rig-veda; vishnu  Agatha, St.   (good woman)   (third century)  In Christian legend, martyr, patron saint of  bell founders, girdlers, jewelers, malsters, wet  nurses, weavers, and shepherdesses. Invoked  against earthquake, fire, lightning, storm, ste -  rility, wolves, and diseases of the breast. Feast,  5 February.  There are many accounts of the saint’s life  in   both   Latin   and   Greek;   these   influenced  the version in   The Golden Legend,   a collection  of saints’ lives written in the 13th century by  Jacobus de Voragine.  Agatha was loved by the Roman consul  Quintian, but she wanted to remain a virgin.  When Quintian found out she was a Christian,  he brought her up on charges. She was handed  over to a courtesan, Aphrodisia (or Frondisia),  who ran a brothel with her six daughters. All  of Aphrodisia’s attempts to turn Agatha into  a whore failed. When she reported her failure  to Quintian, he became so angry that he had  Agatha   tortured.   Her   breasts   were   crushed  and then cut off. At night, however, St. Peter  and an angel visited her in prison and healed  her wounds with “celestial ointment” and then  “vanished from her sight.”  The   next   day,   when   Quintian   saw   that  Agatha’s wounds were healed, he ordered that  the girl be rolled over hot coals. When this was  done, an earthquake shook the city (Catania, in  Sicily), and the people blamed it on Quintian  for   mistreating   Agatha.   Finally,   after   more  gruesome torture the saint asked God to free  her spirit, and God answered her plea.  The cult of St. Agatha goes back to the first  centuries of Christianity. Her name occurs on  a calendar of saints in Carthage written about  the sixth century, and she is named in the old  Latin Mass. Venantius Fortunatus, the early  Christian poet, wrote a hymn in her honor. In  Christian art she is shown in the procession of  saints at Sant’ Apollinare Nuovo in Ravenna,  Italy. One of her attributes, her breasts (dur -  ing the Middle Ages there were at least six  breasts claimed as relics by various churches),  were mistaken for loaves of bread in some art  works, resulting in the blessing of bread on her  feast day. In Sicily she is invoked against the  outbreak of fire because, according to her leg -  end, she saved Catania from destruction when  Mount Etna erupted. The people took the veil  that covered her body and carried it on a spear  in procession. As a result of the rite the flames  from the eruption stopped spreading.  Sebastiano del Piombo, the 16th-century  Italian   artist,   painted   The   Martyrdom   of   St.  Agatha,   taking the removal of her breasts by  pincers for his subject. However, the artist  seems to be more concerned with the erotic  connotations of the exposed breasts than with  the saint’s martyrdom.  See also:   agnes, st.;   golden legend, the ;  peter, st.  Agathodaemon   (good   demon)   In   Greek  mythology,   a   good   spirit   of   the   cornfields  and   vineyards.   Libations   of   unmixed   wine  were made to the spirit at meals. In Greek art  Agathodaemon was portrayed as a youth hold -  ing a horn of plenty and a bowl in one hand,  and in the other a poppy and ears of corn.  Agenor   (heroic)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  hero, son of Antenor by Theano, a priest -  ess of Athena; brother of Acamas, Achelous,  Coon, Crino, Demolem, Glaucus, Helicaon,  Iphidamas,   Laocoön,   Laodamas,   Lycam,  Polybus,   and   Polydamas;   half   brother   of  Pedaeus; father of Echeclus. Agenor was one  of the bravest heroes of Troy. In Homer’s   Iliad  (book 11) he leads the Trojans in storming  the Greek entrenchments and rescues Hector  when he is thrown down by Ajax. When he  Agenor   33

=== 페이지 51 ===
enters into battle with Achilles, he is saved by  Apollo. In post-Homeric myth Agenor is killed  by Neoptolemus, the son of Achilles. Agenor is  also the name of a son of the sea god Poseidon  and Libya; king of Phoenicia; twin brother of  Belus; married to Telephassa (or Argiore); and  father of Cadmus, Cilix, Demodoce, Electra,  Europa, Phineus, Phoenix, and Thasus.  See also:   achilles; ajax; antenor; apollo;  athena; electra; hector; laocoön;   iliad,  the;   poseidon  Aglaea   (splendor)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughter of Zeus and Eurynome; one of the  three Graces. The others were Euphrosyne  (joy) and Thalia (abundance). In some accounts  Aglaea is said to be the wife of Hephaestus.  See also:   euphrosyne; hephaestus; zeus  Aglookik   In Eskimo mythology, beneficent  spirit who lives under the ice and helps hunters  find game.  Agnes,   St.   (pure,   chaste)   (fourth   century)  In Christian legend, martyr. One of the Four  Great Virgin Martyrs of the Latin, or Western,  Church;   patron   saint   of   betrothed   couples,  gardeners, and virgins. Invoked to preserve  chastity. Feast, 21 January.  Agnes is one of the most popular saints in  Christian legend. Her life is discussed by St.  Ambrose, who wrote a hymn in her honor, and  by St. Augustine, who wrote that she died a  virgin martyr at the age of 13. The main source  of her legend, however, comes from the early  Christian poet Prudentius.   The Golden Legend,  a collection of saints’ lives written in the 13th  century by Jacobus de Voragine used Pruden -  tius, among others, as a source.  Agnes was loved by a pagan Roman, whose  advances she blocked by telling him she was in  love with another (Christ) who was better than  he. Out of jealousy the young man denounced  Agnes as a Christian, and she was sent to a  brothel   as   punishment.   When   she   arrived,  her clothes were removed, but God “gave her  such grace that the hairs of her head became  so long that they covered her body to the feet,  so that her body was not seen,” according to  The Golden Legend.   God sent an angel who  defended her chastity against all assaults from  customers of the house. When one man tried  to rape her, the angel “took him by the throat  and strangled him” and he fell dead.  In the end Agnes was raped and finally mar -  tyred, but the various accounts do not agree on  how she met her death.   The Golden Legend   says  a “sword was put in her body.” St. Ambrose,  however, says she “bent her neck,” meaning  she was decapitated. Pope Damascus says she  was burned alive. In Rome on her feast day two  white lambs are offered at the sanctuary rails in  her church while a hymn is sung in her honor.  The wool from the lambs is used to weave the  pallium, part of the vestments worn by arch -  bishops in the Latin Church. The custom may  have been derived from the folk etymology of  her name; lamb in Latin is   agnus.  It is believed that on St. Agnes’s Eve if you  take a row of pins and stick them in your sleeve  one after the other, while saying a paternoster,  you will dream of the one you will marry. Tak -  ing this folk belief John Keats wrote a mag -  nificent poem,   The Eve of St. Agnes   (1819), a  work rich in romantic celebration of erotic love  and fantasy. Alfred, Lord Tennyson also used  the saint in his poem   St. Agnes Eve,   though  he attempted to treat the subject in a differ -  ent manner. José de Ribera, the 17th century  Spanish artist, painted his   St. Agnes,   showing a  young girl on her knees, crossing her breasts in  modesty, while her long hair and drapery, held  by an angel, cover the rest of her body.  See   also:   ambrose,   st.;   augustine,   st.;  golden legend, the  Agnes of Montepulciano, St.   (pure, chaste)  (1268–1317)   In Christian legend, Dominican  abbess. Feast, 20 April.  Agnes was placed in a nunnery at the age of  nine and was made abbess of a new convent at  Procino when she was 15 years old. For 15 years  34   Aglaea

=== 페이지 52 ===
she slept on the ground, using a stone pillow, and  lived on bread and water until she nearly died  and had to “diminish her austerities on account  of her health,” according to one account. The  citizens of her town, Montepulciano, promised  to build a convent for Agnes if she would return  to them. They tore down some brothels and  constructed the convent. When Agnes arrived,  she was made the prioress, a position she held  until her death. Numerous miracles are recorded  in her later life. One tells of how she had a vision  in which an angel held her under an olive tree  and offered her a cup, saying, “Drink this chal -  ice, spouse of Christ: the Lord Jesus drank it for  you.” At 49 she died, after telling her nuns she  was going to her “spouse,” Jesus Christ.  Another saint, Catherine of Siena, visited  her tomb, as did Emperor Charles IV. When  St. Catherine visited the shrine she stooped to  kiss the feet of the “incorrupt body,” and the  foot “lifted itself to meet her lips,” according  to legend.  In Christian art the scene of the foot rising  is often portrayed. When St. Agnes is shown  alone, she is dressed as a Dominican abbess,  with white habit and black mantle and with a  lamb (for her purity), a lily and a book. Often  she is shown gazing on the cross, since she was  devoted to the Passion of Christ.  See also:   catherine of siena, st.  Agneyastra   In   Hindu   mythology,   a   fire  weapon given to Agnivesa, the son of Agni, the  fire god. He then gives the weapon to Drona.  See also:   agni; drona  Agni   (fire)   In Hindu mythology, the fire god.  Fire and its relation to sacrifice was a dominant  feature of the fire cult during Vedic times. The  flames and the aroma of the sacrifice rose into  the sky and were thus assumed to be the most  effective way to reach the all-powerful beings.  In the sacred Indian collection of hymns the  Rig-Veda, Agni has more hymns addressed to  him than has any other god except the storm  god, Indra. Agni is called the messenger and  mediator between heaven and earth, announc -  ing to the gods the hymns sung to them and  conveying offerings of their worshippers. He  invited the worshippers by his crackling flames,  bringing fire down on the sacrifice.  The Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata  tells how Agni, having devoured too many  offerings, lost his power. To regain his strength  he   wanted   to   consume   a   whole   forest.   At  first Indra prevented him, but eventually Agni  tricked Indra and accomplished his task. In  another Hindu epic,   The Ramayama,   Agni is the  father of Nila, who aids the hero Rama.  Agni is portrayed as a red man with three  legs, seven arms, and dark eyes, eyebrows, and  hair. He rides a ram and wears a   yajñopavita   (a  Brahmanical thread) and a garland of fruit. Fire  issues from his mouth, and seven streams of  glory radiate from his body.  Gustav Holst wrote   Hymn to Agni,   based on  a hymn in the Rig-Veda. The work is scored for  male chorus and orchestra.  Agni is also called Vahni (he who receives  the burnt offerings); Brihaspati (lord of sacred  speech) in his role as creative force; Vitihotra  (he who sanctifies the worshipper); Dhananjaya  (he who destroys riches); Kivalana (he who  burns); Dhumektu (he whose sign is smoke);  Agni   35  Agni

=== 페이지 53 ===
Chagaratha (he who rides on a ram), referring  to his mount; Saptajihva (he who has seven  tongues); Pavaka (the purifier); and Grihapati,  when referring to household fire.  Associated with Agni are the Bhrigus (roast -  ers or consumers), spirits who nourish a fire  and are the makers of chariots. Also associated  with Agni is Kravyad, the fire that consumes  bodies on a funeral pyre. In Hindu folklore  today a   kravyad   is a flesh-eating goblin or any  carnivorous animal.  See also:   indra; kravyad;   mahabharata,  the ; rama;   ramayana, the ; rig-veda  Agove Minoire   In Haitian voodoo, a female  loa (deified spirit of the dead) who guards for -  est groves; symbolized by a phallus carved from  wood. Sometimes her symbol is a mirror.  See also:   loa  Agramante   In   the   Charlemagne   cycle   of  legends, a king of Africa who invaded France  to avenge the death of his father, Troyano.  He besieged Paris but was defeated and later  killed   by   Roland   (Orlando).   He   appears   in  Boilardo’s   Orlando   Innamorato   and   Ariosto’s  Orlando Furioso.  See also:   charlemagne; roland  Agrat bat Mahalath   In Jewish mythology,  demoness queen who travels about in a chariot  causing harm. Her evil actions are confined  to the eve of the Sabbath and Wednesdays.  Medieval Jewish legend held that she would be  destroyed when the era of the Messiah arrived.  Agretes   In Arthurian legend associated with  the Holy Grail, a king of Camelot who pretend -  ed to be a Christian but persecuted his people  when they were converted to Christianity. As  punishment he went insane and died.  See also:   camelot; holy grail  Agwé   (Agoué,   Agoueh   R   Oyo,   Aguet)   In  Haitian voodoo, sea god, married to Erzulie,  who as his wife is called La Sirène and is por -  trayed as a mermaid. Agwé’s   vévé,   or symbol, is  a large sailboat, and his sacred colors are blue  and white. With the blending of voodoo and  Christian mythologies in Haiti, Agwé is often  identified with St. Ulrich, a 10th-century bish -  op whose symbol is a fish. The Barque d’Agwé  is a specially constructed raft on which offer -  ings to Agwé are placed and then sent out to  sea. Agwé’s home, Zilet en bas de l’eau (island  below the sea), is where the souls of the dead  live. Voodoo cultists send down ships filled  with gifts to his palace below the sea.  See also:   erzulie; mermaid; ulrich, st.  Aharaigichi   In the mythology of the Abipone  Indians of South America, principal god, iden -  tified with the Pleiades.  Martin Dobrizhoffer, a Jesuit priest in the  18th century, spent 18 years as a missionary in  Paraguay. He wrote of the beliefs of the Abi -  pone in his book   History of the Abipones,   which  both praises and condemns the Indians.  I said that the Abipones were commend -  able for their wit and strength of mind, but  ashamed of my too hasty praise, I retract  my words and pronounce them fools, idi -  ots, and madmen. Lo! this is the proof of  their insanity! They are unacquainted with  God, and with the very name of God, yet  they affectionately salute the evil spirit,  whom they call   Aharaigichi,   or   Queevet,  with the title of grandfather,   Groaperikie.  Him they declare to be their grandfather,  and that of the Spaniards, but with this  difference, that to the latter he gives gold  and silver and fine clothes, but to them he  transmits valour.  Dobrizhoffer   then   goes   on   to   inform  his readers that the constellation Pleiades is  believed to be closely connected with Ahara -  igichi, and when it “disappears at certain peri -  ods from the sky of South America .   .   . they [the  Indians] suppose that their grandfather is sick”  and is going to die. When the stars return again  36   Agove Minoire

=== 페이지 54 ===
in May, the Indians “with joyful shouts, and the  festive sound of pipes and trumpets,” congratu -  late him on the “recovery of his health.”  See also:   pleiades  Ahasuerus   In   medieval   Christian   legend,  one of the names given to the Wandering  Jew. The name is derived from the king of  the   Medes   and   Persians   mentioned   in   the  Old Testament book of Esther, who in turn is  derived from Xerxes I (485–464   b.c.e. ).  See also:   wandering jew  Ahl-at-tral   In Arabic and Islamic mytholo -  gy, demons who live beneath the Sahara Desert  and appear as whirling sandstorms, drying up  the wells before caravans arrive.  Ahmad   In Islamic legend, the name Jesus  Christ called Muhammad when he foretold the  Prophet’s coming. The Koran (sura 61) says:  “And remember when Jesus the son of Mary  said, ‘O children of Israel! of a truth I am God’s  Apostle to you to confirm the law which was  given before me, and to announce an apostle  that shall come after me, whoso name shall be  Ahmad.’   ”  See also:   koran, the; muhammad  Ahoeitu   (day   god)   In   Polynesian   mythol -  ogy, Tongan culture hero, son of the sky god  Eitumatupua and his wife, the worm Ilaheva.  Born on the the earth, Ahoeitu decided to  ascend to the sky to visit his father. However,  his heavenly brothers murdered him, cutting  him into pieces and eating them. When his  father, Eitumatupua, learned what had hap -  pened, he ordered his sons to vomit up Ahoeitu.  They obeyed, and Eitumatupua restored his  son to life with some magic herbs and sent him  to rule Tonga.  Ah Puch   (Ahpuch, Ahal Puh, Ah-Puchah) (to  melt, to dissolve, to spoil)   In Mayan mythol -  ogy, god of death, the destroyer, ruler of the  lowest   of   the   nine   underworlds   (Hunhau),  where he is chief demon. Ah Puch was the  patron god of the number 10, the horrible  Mitnal. He was associated with three Mayan  symbols of death: the dog, the Moan bird, and  the owl. In ancient Mayan mythology Ah Puch  was associated with the god of war. Sometimes  Ah Puch is identified by scholars with A of the  Mayan letter gods. Today Ah Puch is known in  the folklore of the Mayans as Yum Cimil (lord  of death). He is believed to prowl about, caus -  ing sickness and death. In Mayan art Ah Puch  is portrayed as a skeleton and often a bloated  body with decaying flesh. He holds in his hands  a skull, symbol of death.  Ah Raxá Lac   (the lord of the green plate)   In  Mayan mythology, an earth god, mentioned  in the   Popol Vuh,   sacred book of the ancient  Quiché Maya of Guatemala.  See also:   popol vuh  Ah Raxa Tzel   (the lord of the green gourd  or blue bowl)   In Mayan mythology, a sky god  or personification of the sky, mentioned in the  sacred book   Popol Vuh   of the ancient Quichá  Maya of Guatemala. The name of the god  reflects the belief that the sky was an inverted  bowl or gourd.  See also:   popol vuh  Ahriman   (Angra   Mainyu,   Anra   Mainyu,  Aharman)   In   Persian   mythology,   the   evil  spirit, opposed to the good creator god, Ahura  Mazda; in the end Ahriman will be destroyed  by the forces of good.  Though   the   prophet   Zarathustra   raised  Ahura Mazda to the major rank of god and  made Ahriman a lesser deity, in earlier Per -  sian mythology both gods were equals and  brothers, sons of the great god of time-space,  Zurvan. When the two were conceived, Zurvan  decided that whichever came to him first would  be made king. When the evil Ahriman heard  this in his mother’s womb, he ripped it open,  emerged, and approached his father.  “Who are you?” Zurvan asked.  Ahriman   3 

=== 페이지 55 ===
“I am your son, Ahura Mazda,” the evil  Ahriman replied.  “Ahura Mazda is light, and you are black  and stinking,” Zurvan declared.  While they were speaking, Ahura Mazda  came out of his mother’s womb. Zurvan imme -  diately recognized him and made him king.  “Did you not vow that to whichever of your  sons should come first you would give the king -  dom?” Ahriman complained.  “You false and wicked one,” Zurvan replied,  “the kingdom shall be given to you for nine  thousand years, but Ahura Mazda is neverthe -  less king over you and will triumph after that  time.” Ahura Mazda then created the heavens  and the earth and all beautiful things, but Ahri -  man created demons, snakes, and all evil.  Ahriman is identified with Iblis, the devil  in Islamic mythology. In some works Ahriman,  rather than the snake of biblical lore, is pic -  tured as an old man offering Adam and Eve the  fatal fruit. One early Persian sculpture portrays  Ahura Mazda riding on horseback trampling  on Ahriman’s snake-covered head.  See also:   ahura mazda; iblis; zarathus -  tra; zurvan  Ahtoltecat   In Mayan mythology, silversmith  god of the Quiché Maya of Guatemala, patron  of the Toltecs, skilled silversmiths.  Ahulane   In Mayan mythology, archer god,  portrayed holding an arrow. Ahulane was wor -  shipped on the island of Cozumel, where his  cult was connected with warfare, as were those  of Ah Chuy Kay, the fire destroyer; Hun Pic  Tok, who carried 8,000 spears; Kac-u-Pacat,  who carried a shield of fire; and Ah Cun Can,  the serpent charmer. Many of these names may  have a purely symbolic connection with war  and may not be the names of separate deities.  Ahura   Mazda   (Ahura   Mazdah,   Auhar  Mazd)   In   Persian   mythology,   good   cre -  ator god, the wise lord, later called Ohrmazd  (Ormuzd). Ahura Mazda is continually bat -  tling the evil spirit Ahriman; in the end Ahura  Mazda and the forces of goodness will prevail  over Ahriman.  In the beginning Ahura Mazda may have  been connected with Mithra, before he was ele -  vated to the role of supreme being in Persian  religion. According to the prophet Zarathustra,  Ahura Mazda created cosmic order. He created  both the moral and material worlds and is the  sovereign, omniscient god of order. Creator  of all things, Ahura Mazda is himself uncre -  ated and eternal. One of the hymns ascribed to  Zarathustra says:  O Ahura Mazda, this I ask of thee: speak  to me truly!  How should I pray, when I wish to pray  to one like you?  3    Ahtoltecat  Ahriman

=== 페이지 56 ===
May one like you, O Mazda, who is  friendly, teach one like me?  And may you give us supporting aids  through friendly Justice,  And tell how you may come to use with  Good Disposition?  A rock inscription placed by King Darius I  has these lines to the god:  There is one God, omnipotent Ahura  Mazda,  It is He who has created the earth here;  It is He who has created the heaven there;  It is He who has created mortal man.  In Persian art Ahura Mazda is sometimes  portrayed as a bearded man emerging from a  winged creature. He is often described as wear -  ing a star-decked robe, and the “swifthorsed  sun” is said to be his eye. His throne is in the  highest heaven, where he holds court as his  angels minister to him.  See also:   aeshma; ahriman; zarathustra  Ahurani   In Persian mythology, water god -  dess who watches over rainfall as well as stand -  ing water; invoked for health and healing, for  prosperity and growth.  Aido Quedo   In Haitian voodoo, a female  loa (deified spirit of the dead) who determines  man’s fate. She is often compared to the Virgin  Mary in Christian symbolism.  See also:   loa; virgin mary  Aijeke   In Lapland mythology, a wooden god  worshipped as late as the 17th century, even  though the country was nominally Lutheran.  John Scheffer, a professor at the University of  Uppsala, in his book   Lapponia,   says the image  of Aijeke was always made of birch wood. “Of  this wood,’ he writes, “they make so many  idols as they have sacrifices and, when they  have done, they keep them in a cave by some  hillside. The shape of them is very rude; at the  top they are made to represent a man’s head.”  Aijeke’s rude shape had two spikes in its head  to strike fire with. He was often identified with  the Norse god Thor. Aijeke was also called  Murona Jubmel (wooden god).  See also:   ask and embla; thor  Aino   (peerless, splendid)   In the Finnish epic  poem   The Kalevala   (runes 3–5), a Lapp maiden  who was to marry the culture hero Vainamoinen  but was drowned instead.  To ransom his life, her brother, the evil  Joukahainen, offered Aino to Vainamoinen as a  wife. The parents of the girl were happy about  the match, but she was not because Vainamoinen  was an old man. After Aino met Vainamoinen  in the forest while gathering birch shoots for  brooms, she was even more determined not to  marry. Her mother, however, bribed her with  gifts. Aino, dressed in her wedding garments,  then wandered out into the fields, wishing she  were dead. Stealing down to the river bank,  she laid aside her garments and ornaments and  swam to a neighboring rock. No sooner did she  sit on the rock than it toppled, drowning her.  The animals sent a message of Aino’s death, by  way of the hare, to her mother, who lamented  her daughter’s death, saying that mothers should  not force their “unwilling daughters” to take  bridegrooms “that they love not.”  Vainamoinen then went fishing for Aino in  the rivers. He caught a fish, which he was about  to kill when he discovered it was Aino. Not  giving up his quest, he asked her to become his  wife, but she refused.  The sad fate of Aino inspired the Finnish  composer and conductor Robert Kajanus to  compose his   Aino   Symphony in 1885 for cho -  rus and orchestra. The Finnish painter Akseli  Gallen-Kallela portrayed the fate of Aino in a  triptych.  See also:   joukahainen;  kalevala ,  the ; lön -  nrot, elias; vainamoinen  Aiomun   Kondi   In the mythology of the  Arawak Indians of the Guianas, the dweller-on-  high. Aiomun Kondi destroyed the earth twice  because   of   the   disobedience   of   humankind.  Aiomun Kondi   3 

=== 페이지 57 ===
Once he used fire; the second time, water. He  saved one good man, Marerewana, and his fam -  ily from destruction.  Aipalookvik   In   Eskimo   mythology,   evil  spirit who lives in the sea and attempts to  destroy boatmen.  Airyaman   In   Persian   mythology,   god   of  healing, invoked against disease, sorcerers, and  demons. The good god, Ahura Mazda, called  on Airyaman to help expel disease. The god  was so successful that he caused 99,999 diseases  to cease. In the   Bundahishn,   a sacred Persian  book of the Zoroastrians, Airyaman is called he  “who gives the world healing of all pains.”  See also:   ahura mazda  Aiwel   In   African   mythology   (Dinka   of  Eastern Sudan), hero, founder of a group of  men who perform political and religious func -  tions as members of a hereditary priesthood,  the spear masters. Aiwel was born to a woman  whose husband had been killed when a lion,  desiring the man’s bracelet, bit off his thumb  to get it. The stubborn man had refused to  give it up. The woman had wanted a son and  was able to bear one through the aid of a water  spirit. Aiwel was born with a full set of teeth  and was able to drink a full gourd of milk at a  time. When his mother discovered that it was  Aiwel, not his older sister, who was drinking all  of the milk, she became very upset. Aiwel told  her not to tell anyone or else she would die.  Nevertheless, she spoke and died.  Aiwel then joined his father, the water spirit.  Returning from the river, he took the form of a  man and a multicolored ox, named Longar. As it  is the Dinka custom to name a person after the  characteristics of his ox, Aiwel was called Aiwel  Longar. A drought came and only Aiwel’s cattle  remained fat. Aiwel then left for a promised land  of plenty, asking the people to follow him. At  first they refused, and when they later tried to  follow, he grew angry and killed some of them  with his fishing spear. A man called Agothyathik  saved some of the people by fighting with Aiwel,  and in time Aiwel surrendered.  Aiwel gave fishing spears to the first group  of people to cross the river and thus founded  the spear-master clans. Those who came later  were given war spears, and they founded the  warrior clans. Aiwel left his people, saying that  he would return only in time of need.  See also:   deng  Ajax   (of   the   earth?)   In   Greek   and   Latin  mythology, Latin form of the Greek Aias, a  great hero of the Trojan War. Ajax was the son of  Telamon of Salamis and Periboea (or Erioboea),  and half brother of Teucer. He was called Great  Ajax because he was taller than the other Greek  heroes. Ajax brought 12 ships to Troy, where  he proved himself second only to Achilles in  strength and bravery, though he is portrayed as  rather stupid by Homer in the   Iliad.  In later mythology Ajax goes mad when  the armor of the dead Achilles is offered as a  prize to Odysseus for his cunning and not to  Ajax for his bravery. Ajax, according to this  version, killed himself by falling on the sword  given him by Hector. Out of his blood sprang  the purple lily, and on its petals could be traced  the first letters of his name,   Ai.   His death is the  subject of Sophocles’ play   Ajax,   he is described  in detail in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13), and  he appears in Horace’s   Odes   (II, IV, 5).  A statue and temple to Ajax were erected at  Salamis, and a yearly festival, the Aianteia, was  held in his honor. He was also worshipped at  Athens, where the tribe Aiantis was named after  him. In later Greek mythology he was supposed  to linger with Achilles in the island of Leuce.  Another Ajax in Greek mythology was the  son of the Locrian king Oileus and was called  Locrian   or   Lesser   Ajax   to   avoid   confusion  with the Great Ajax. He took 40 ships to Troy.  Though he was small, he distinguished himself  beside his larger namesake. He was renowned  for hurling the spear and was the swiftest run -  ner next to Achilles. On his voyage home, to  appease the anger of Athena, he suffered ship -  40   Aipalookvik

=== 페이지 58 ===
wreck on the Gyraean Rocks off the island of  Myconos or, according to a variant myth, on  the southernmost point of Euboea. Poseidon  rescued him, but when Ajax boasted that he  had escaped against the will of the gods, Posei -  don took his trident and struck off the rock on  which Ajax sat, and he sank into the sea.  Other accounts say that Athena’s anger fell  upon Ajax because when Cassandra had sought  refuge at Athena’s altar during the taking of  Troy. Ajax tore her away by force, causing  the sacred image of Athena, which Cassandra  was   holding,   to   fall.   Though   Agamemnon  took Cassandra from Ajax, the Greeks left the  crime of sacrilege unpunished, and the goddess  vented her anger on the whole fleet with ship -  wrecks and high winds on the way home.  Along with other heroes of the Trojan War,  Ajax was believed to live with Achilles in the  island of Leuce. The Locrians worshipped him  as a hero. A vacant place was left for him in the  line when their troops formed for battle.  See   also:   achilles; athena; cassandra;  hector;   iliad, the;   odysseus; ovid  Ajy   In Siberian mythology, a term meaning  creator, birth-giving, life-giving, or nourishing.  It is often used in conjunction with the names  of various gods and goddesses.  Ajyset   (Ajysyt)   (birth   giver)   In   Siberian  mythology, mother goddess worshipped by the  Yakut, a Turkish people living near the Lena  River. She presided over birth and brought  souls from heaven to the newly born. She  owned the Golden Book of Fate, which con -  tained the names and fates of every human  being, living or yet to be born. In prayers she  was often addressed as Ajy-Khotun (birth-giv -  ing mistress) and Ajysyt-Ijaksit-Khotun (birth-  giving nourishing mother). Ajyset is similar  to   another   Siberian   goddess,   Yakut-Kubai-  Khotun, worshipped by the Buriat, who lived  in the Tree of Life or under its roots. She was  considered the mother of men and animals.  See also:   tree of life  Akhenaton   (Ikhnaton) (glory of Aten)   (1372–  1355   b.c.e. )   In Egyptian history, the name  chosen by Amenhotep IV when he adopted the  worship of Aten. The son of Amenhotep III and  his commoner wife, Tiye, Amenhotep IV was  raised in a court of luxury and peace. Debate  still rages as to whether or not he was a co-ruler  with his father. In any event, when he ruled as  pharaoh in his own right, he changed his name  to Akhenaton and moved the capital of Egypt  from Thebes to Amarna, a virtually virgin tract  of land in middle Egypt. There he dedicated  himself to the worship of the sun disk, or Aten,  at the expense of the priesthood of Amun at  Thebes. Aten was divorced from all anthropo -  logical associations and was regarded as a kindly  creative force. Akhenaton’s own hymn to Aten  is close to certain hymns in the Old Testament,  although we know that other deities continued  to be worshipped alongside Aten. So pervasive  was the influence of this new religion that the  art of the period underwent a transformation  that stressed naturalism in a way unparalleled in  earlier periods of Egyptian art. Akhenaton forms  the main character in Agatha Christie’s play  Akhenaton,   Mika Waltari’s novel   The Egyptian,  and Philip Glass’s opera   Akhenaton.  See also:   aten  Akhtar   In Persian mythology, zodiacal con -  stellation that makes up the army of the good  god, Ahura Mazda.  See also:   ahura mazda  Akhtar   4   Ajax

=== 페이지 59 ===
Akkruva   (Avfruvva,   Havfru)   In   Finno-  Ugric mythology, fish goddess worshipped in  Lapland. Akkruva appeared as a mermaid, the  upper part of her body human, her head cov -  ered with long hair, and her lower portion that  of a fish. She was believed to rise from the sea  combing her hair. When the goddess was in a  beneficent mood she helped men catch fish,  but she could also be destructive.  See also:   mermaid  Akshobhya   In Mahayana Buddhism, one  of   the   five   Dhyani-Buddhas.   Called   the  Immovable, his symbol is the thunderbolt and  his mount an elephant.  See also:   dhayani-buddhas; mahayana  Akubo   In Japanese No plays, the character  of a wicked priest who wears a coarse beard and  carries a halberd.  See also:   no  Akuma   In Japanese folklore, an evil spirit  who carries a sword and a huge head with flam -  ing eyes. One day a nobleman saw an akuma  with a naked sword floating toward him in  the sky. Frightened by the hideous sight, the  nobleman hid himself under a mat and looking  out, saw the akuma enter the house next door.  Hearing a terrible uproar, he went to see what  had happened and found that his neighbor, in  trying to kill the akuma, had accidentally killed  his wife, children, and servants.   Variant terms :  ma, toori akuma.  Akupera   (tortoise, turtle)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, the name of the tortoise on which the  earth is sometimes said to be supported.  Ala   In African mythology (Ibo of Eastern  Nigeria), daughter of Chuku (the great god),  mother earth, goddess of the underworld, ruler  of men, guardian of the harvest, and dispenser  of fertility to people and animals. Ala is wor -  shipped all over Ibo country with shrines and  special houses, called Mbari, which are square  and contain vividly colored mud figures. Ala is  portrayed in the center of the house with a wide  variety of animals, men, and other gods sur -  rounding her. As ruler of the underworld, Ala  receives the dead into her womb or pocket.  Ala   In Russian mythology, daughter of Volos,  god of beasts and flocks. Serge Prokofiev’s bal -  let   Ala and Lolli   (1914–1915) deals with the  myth. In the ballet Ala is taken prisoner by the  enemy god and freed by the hero, Lolli, with  the help of Volos. Prokofiev used the ballet  score for his orchestral   Scythian Suite.  See also:   volos  Al Aaraaf   (Al Arg) (the partition)   In Islamic  mythology, the region between paradise and  Djahannam, or hell, presided over by the beau -  tiful maiden Nesace. Al Aaraaf is the place for  those persons who are morally neither good nor  bad, such as infants, lunatics, and idiots, as well as  those whose life is a balance of good and evil.  Edgar Allan Poe was fascinated by the idea  and wrote in a letter to Isaac Lea that Al Aaraaf  “is a medium between Heaven and Hell where  men   suffer   no   punishment   but   yet   do   not  attain that tranquil or even happiness which  they suppose to be characteristic of heavenly  enjoyment.” In Poe’s poem “Al Aaraaf” it is  a wondrous star surrounded by four suns. A  youth, Angelo, is brought there with the hope  of entering heaven, but an earthly love prevents  him from hearing the call of Nesace.  See also:   hades; heaven and hell  Aladdin   (Alaeddin)   Hero in the tale “Aladdin  and the Enchanted Lamp” from   The Thousand  and One Nights.   The tale is not included in any  manuscript copy of the work. It first appeared  in the French translation of the   Nights   (1704–  1715) by Galland, who heard the tale from a  Christian Syrian, Youhenna Diab.  Aladdin is a good-for-nothing son of a poor  tailor in China. After his father’s death he takes  to the streets and turns up at his mother’s house  only for meals. One day a man pretending to  42   Akkruva

=== 페이지 60 ===
be his uncle gains Aladdin’s confidence and  takes him to a high and barren mountain. The  man then builds a fire and pours on it some  perfumes, muttering incantations at the same  time. Suddenly the earth quakes and opens,  revealing an alabaster slab. Prodded by the sor -  cerer disguised as his uncle, Aladdin removes  the slab and descends into a vault below. It is  filled with silver and gold.  “Above the dais,” the sorcerer tells Aladdin,  “thou wilt find a lamp hung up; take it and  pour out the oil that is therein and put it in thy  sleeve; and fear not for thy clothes therefrom,  for it is not oil. And as thou returnest, thou  mayest pluck from the trees what thou wilt, for  that is thine as long as the lamp is in thy hand.”  The sorcerer then gives Aladdin a ring that will  protect him from all evil.  Then, as Aladdin is trying to climb out  of the vault, the sorcerer closes the marble  slab over him. Aladdin calls upon Allah for  help and at the same time accidentally rubs  the lamp, whereupon one of the marids, the  most powerful of the djinn (genies), appears.  “Here am I, thy slave,” announces the marid.  “Ask what thou wilt, for I am his slave who  hath the ring in hand, the ring of my lord.”  Aladdin asks to be freed and the marid obeys  his wish. By means of the magic lamp Aladdin  obtains wealth, has a palace built, and marries  Bardroulboudour.   When   the   sorcerer   finds  that Aladdin has escaped, he sets out to recover  the magic lamp. After buying a number of  lamps from a coppersmith, the sorcerer goes  about the streets, crying: “Who will barter an  old lamp for a new?” All the town thinks he  is crazy, but Bardroulboudour exchanges the  magic lamp for a new copper one. Immediately  the sorcerer rubs the lamp, conjures the marid,  and orders Aladdin’s palace and all his goods  transported to Africa, the sorcerer’s home.  Aladdin is out hunting while this happens  and, rubbing his ring to return to the palace,  he is transported to Africa. Later, with the aid  of his wife, Aladdin drugs the sorcerer and cuts  off his head. After some more adventures (for  the sorcerer has an evil brother) Aladdin and  his wife live happily until death, the destroyer  of delights, separates them.  Aladdin’s story has been set to music by  many composers (although none of the operas  is still performed), and it has been a favorite  movie subject.  The palace built by the marid of the lamp  had a room with 24 windows, all but one set  with precious stones. The last was left for the  sultan to finish, but his monetary resources  were unequal to the task; thus the phrase,  “to finish Aladdin’s window,” which means to  attempt to complete something begun by a  master hand or genius. Longfellow’s poem on  Hawthorne’s death concludes:  Ah! who shall lift that wand of magic power  And the lost clue regain?  The unfinished window in Aladdin’s tower  Unfinished must remain!  See   also:   allah;   thousand   and   one  nights, the  Alains le Gros   (rock, noble?)   In medieval  legend connected with the Holy Grail, the first  fisher king. Alains was told by Josephus, keeper  of the Holy Grail, to take a net from the table  on which the Grail stood and cast it into a lake.  One fish was caught, and Alains’s men laughed  at him for believing the single fish could feed  all of them. But Alains prayed over the fish, and  it multiplied enough for all of the men to eat.  He was then called the “fisher king” or “rich  fisher.” Afterward all keepers of the Holy Grail  were called fisher kings.  See also:   holy grail  Alastor   (avenger)   In Greek mythology, the  name for an avenging demon who follows the  footsteps of criminals according to Aeschylus’s  Agamemnon.   Shelley used the name for   Alastor,  or The Spirit of Solitude   (1816); his first impor -  tant work, the poem is a condemnation of  self-centered idealism. The name Alastor is  Alastor   43

=== 페이지 61 ===
also borne by a son of Neleus and brother of  Nestor, married to Harpalyce.  See also:   agamemnon; nestor  Alban, St.   (man from Alba)   (fourth century)  In Christian legend, proto-martyr of England.  Feast, 22 June.  St. Bede records the life of the saint in his  Ecclesiastical History of the English People.   When  the   persecution   of   the   Christians   in   Eng -  land was ordered by the emperor Diocletian,  Alban, though a pagan, hid a Christian priest.  For his crime he was condemned to death. He  was first tortured and then led to the place of  execution. On the way it was necessary to cross  the river Coln. A great crowd had gathered,  and the bridge was too narrow for the many  people to pass. When St. Alban “drew near  the stream,” it “was immediately dried up,  and he perceived that the water had departed  and made way for him to pass,” according to  Bede’s account. When they reached the hill of  execution, Alban prayed for water to quench  his thirst. A spring suddenly gushed out at  his feet. Finally, the saint was beheaded, and  the executioner’s eyes “dropped to the ground  together with the blessed martyr’s head.”  St. Alban’s burial place was forgotten and  then rediscovered by King Offic in 793 after  the king had seen in a vision where the remains  of the saint could be found. A church was built  over the spot, and nearby the great Benedictine  monastery and the town of St. Alban’s in Hert -  fordshire, England, were built.  The saint is variously portrayed: as a war -  rior with a cross and sword, crowned with a  laurel, with a peer’s coronet and cross, with  his head cut off, with his head in a holly bush,  spreading his cloak with the sun above, and in  a scene with the executioner’s eyes dropping  out. He is often depicted as carrying his head  in his hands, a conventional symbol adopted  by artists to show that the martyr had been  beheaded.  See also:   bede the venerable, st.; denis of  france, st.  44   Alban, St.  The martyrdom of St. Alban

=== 페이지 62 ===
Albania   In medieval British legend, name for  Scotland, derived from Albanact, son of Brute,  the first king of Britain. At the death of Brut,  Britain was divided by his sons: Locrin got  England; Albanact got Albania (Scotland); and  Kambler got Cambria (Wales). Albania later  became Albany, as in Shakespeare’s   King Lear,  in which the duke of Albany is a Scotsman,  although not specifically mentioned in the play.  See also:   brut; lear, king  Albertus Magnus, St.   (Albert the Great)  (1193–1280)   In Christian legend, bishop and  Doctor   of   the   Church,   responsible   for   the  introduction of Aristotelian methods and prin -  ciples to the study of Christian theology. Feast,  15 November. Albert was considered one of the  greatest Christian thinkers of the Middle Ages.  He was a Dominican friar and later bishop of  Ratisbon. The saint is often portrayed with his  student St. Thomas Aquinas in works by the  Dominican painter Fra Angelico.  See also:   thomas aquinas, st.  Albion   (white)   In medieval British legend,  name for England, possibly based on the White  (Latin   albus ) Cliffs of Dover that face France.  Albion is also the name of a giant who con -  quered the island and named it after himself.  Legend offers other origins for the name. A  giant son of Neptune was named Albion. He is  said to have discovered the country and ruled  it for 44 years. According to another story,  55 daughters of the king of Syria, the eldest  of whom was Albion, were all married on the  same day and murdered their husbands on their  wedding night. They were packed onto a ship  and set adrift. They landed in England, went  ashore, and married natives.  Albiorix   In Celtic mythology, a war god wor -  shipped by the continental Celts at Avignon,  France.   Ancient   Roman   writers   identified  Albiorix with their war god, Mars.  See also:   mars  Alcathous   (swift   aid)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, king of Megara, the son of Pelops and  Hippodameia; brother of Astydameia, Atreus,  Chrysippus,   Copreus,   Lysidice,   Nicippe,  Piltheus, Troezen, and Thyestes; husband of  Euaechme. He slew the Cithaeron lion that  had torn Euippus, the son of Megareus, to  pieces. As a reward he was given Euaechma,  the   daughter   of   Megareus,   as   well   as   the  throne. With Apollo as his friend and helper,  he rebuilt the city walls and one of two for -  tresses, Alcathoe, that had temples to Apollo  and Artemis. A singing stone in the fortress  was said to be the one on which Apollo laid  down his lyre when at work. Alcathous’s eldest  son, Ischepolis, was killed in the Calydonian  boar hunt. His second son, Callipolis, running  with the news to his father when Alcathous was  sacrificing to Apollo, scattered the altar fire.  Alcathous then struck his son dead, believ -  ing the boy had committed sacrilege. By his  daughters Automedusa and Periboea, the wives  of Iphicles and Telamon, Alcathous was the  grandfather of Iolaus and Ajax.  See also:   ajax; apollo; calydonian boar  hunt; pelops  Alcestis   (might   of   the   home)   In   Greek  mythology, daughter of Pelias and Anaxibia  (or Phylomache); wife of Admetus, king of  Pherae in Thessaly. When Admetus, in order  to achieve immortality, had to find someone  to die in his place, all refused, including his  parents; only Alcestis volunteered and gave her  life for his. She was later brought back from  the underworld by Heracles. She appears in  Euripides’ play   Alcestis,   in which Admetus is  portrayed as being a selfish husband. Many  later writers have based their characterizations  of Alcestis on Euripides. William Morris wrote  “The Love of Alcestis” in 1868, and Robert  Browning in   Balaustion’s Adventure   (1871) has  a translation of Euripides’ play in the poem.  In medieval tradition Alcestis was the model  wife, appearing in Chaucer’s   Legend of Good  Women.   She is called Celia in T. S. Eliot’s play  Alcestis   45

=== 페이지 63 ===
The Cocktail Party.   In the play Celia prefers  to return to the land of the dead because for  her it is a greater reality. Milton cites Alcestis  in his “Sonnet 23,” and Rilke wrote a poem  “Alcestis.” The best known operatic setting is  Alceste   (1767) by Gluck, based on Euripides’  play. In the opera Apollo, not Heracles, brings  back Alcestis. A modern operatic version is  Alkestis   (1922) by Rutland Boughton in Gilbert  Murray’s English translation of Euripides’ play.  There is also   Alkestis   (1924) by Egon Wellesz  with a libretto by Hugo von Hofmannsthal.  See   also:   admetus;   alcestis;   chaucer;  heracles  Alcina   (sea   maiden)   In   the   Charlemagne  cycle of legends, a powerful enchantress, the  embodiment   of   carnal   pleasure.   Alcina   was  the sister of Logistilla (reason) and Morgana  (lasciviousness). When she grew tired of her  sexual conquests, she changed her lovers into  trees, fountains, and rocks. The hero Astolpho  fell in love with Alcina, and she changed him  into a myrtle tree. He was later disenchanted  by Melissa, who by means of a magic ring made  Alcina’s real senility and ugliness appear. Alcina  appears in Boiardo’s   Orlando Innamorato   and  Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso,   as well as in Handel’s  opera   Alcina.  See also:   astolpho; charlemagne; myrtle  Alcinous   (mighty mind)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, king of the Phaeacians; husband of Arete;  father   of   Nausicaa;   the   king   with   whom  Odysseus finds shelter and aid. Alcinous appears  in Homer’s   Odyssey   (books 6, 7, 8).  See also:   odysseus;   odyssey, the ; nausicaa  Alcithoe   (swift   might)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, daughter of Minyas; sister of Arsippe and  Leucippe. She and her sisters were changed  into bats for refusing to join the other women  of Boeotia in the worship of Dionysus. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 4) tells her tale.  See also:   dionysus; ovid  Alcmaeon   (strong youth)   In Greek mythol -  ogy,   son   of   Amphiaraus   and   Eriphyle   and  brother   of   Amphilochus.   Alcmaeon   took  part in the expedition of the Epigoni against  Thebes.   On   his   return   home   he   killed   his  mother at the instigation of his father, and as  punishment he was driven mad and haunted  by the Erinyes. Alcmaeon went to Phegeus,  in Psophis, to be purified by Phegeus and  was   then   given   Phegeus’s   daughter   Arsinoe  (or Alphesiboea). He gave her the jewels of  Harmonia, which he had brought from Argos.  In a short time the crops failed, and he again  went mad. Wandering, he eventually arrived  at the mouth of the Achelous River. There he  found an island that had not been there when  his mother cursed him, and he was cured of his  madness. He then married Achelous’s daugh -  ter Callirrhoë and had two sons, Acarnan and  Amphoterus. Unable to resist his wife’s entreat -  ies that she have Harmonia’s necklace and robe,  he went to Phegeus in Arcadia and took them,  pretending they would be dedicated at Delphi  for the healing of his madness. When Phegeus  learned he had been deceived, Alcmaeon was  killed. His death was avenged by his two sons.  He was worshipped at a sanctuary at Thebes  that was said to contain his tomb. Alcmaeon  is cited in Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Purgatory,  canto 12; Paradise, canto 4).  See   also:   acarnan   and   amphoterus;  amphiaraus; amphilochus; callirrhoë; del -  phi; harmonia  Alcmene   (steadfast   strength)   In   Greek  mythology,   daughter   of   King   Electryon   of  Argos and Anaxo; wife of Amphitryon; mother  of   Heracles   by   Zeus.   When   she   died   at   a  great age, Zeus sent Hermes to take her body  from   its   coffin   and   bring   Alcmene   to   the  Elysian Fields. In this heaven Alcmene mar -  ried Rhadamanthys. When Hermes stole the  body of Alcmene, he substituted a large stone,  which was placed in a sacred grove in Thebes  and worshipped. Alcmene also had an altar  46   Alcina

=== 페이지 64 ===
in the temple of Heracles at Athens. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 9) tells her tale.  See also:   hermes.; heracles; ovid; rhada -  manthys; zeus  Alcyone   (kingfisher)   In   Greek   mythology,  wife of Ceyx; daughter of Aeolus and Enarete.  When she learned that her husband, Ceyx, had  been drowned on his way to consult an oracle,  Alcyone threw herself into the sea, and she and  Ceyx both were changed into birds. As long as  they built and tended their nest, the Aegean  was calm. The term “halcyon days” comes  from her name, also rendered Halcyone. Her  tale is told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11)  and in Chaucer’s   Book of the Duchess.  See also:   aeolus; chaucer; ovid  Alcyoneus   (kingfisher)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy,   son   of   Uranus,   whose   blood   touched  Gaea, the earth; eldest and mightiest of the  Titans. Alcyoneus could not be overtaken by  death in his own country. In the war with the  Titans, Heracles had to drag Alcyoneus away  from Pallene before he could kill him. The  hero lifted him from the earth, his mother,  and killed him. Alcyoneus also is the name of  a giant who stole the oxen of Helios from the  island of Erytheia. As Heracles was crossing  the Thracian isthmus of Pallene, Alcyoneus  crushed 12 of his wagons and 25 of his men  with a huge piece of rock. When the giant  hurled it at Heracles, the hero struck it back  with his club and killed Alcyoneus with the  same blow.  See also:   gaea; heracles; titans; uranus  Aldinger, Sir   In medieval British legend,  a knight who appears in a ballad. Aldinger is  steward to Queen Eleanor, wife of King Henry  II. He impeaches her fidelity and submits to a  combat to substantiate his charge. However,  an angel in the shape of a child establishes the  queen’s innocence.  Alecto   (Allecto)   (the enticer)   In Greek and  Roman mythology, one of the three Furies,  or   Erinyes.   The   others   were   Megaera   and  Tisiphone. Alecto is cited in Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 7), in Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Inferno,  canto 9) as “she who wails,” and in Shakespeare’s  Henry IV, Part II   (5.5.39).  See also:   aeneid, the  Alectryon   (rooster, cock)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a youth who was to watch for the approach  of the sun when Ares was making love to  Aphrodite so that they would not be discovered  by her husband, Hephaestus. Alectryon fell  asleep, and the two lovers were discovered. In  anger Ares turned Alectryon into a cock, which  still heralds the dawn.  See also:   aphrodite; ares; cock; hephaestus  Aleine   In   Arthurian   legend,   the   niece   of  Gwain. She persuaded Perceval to enter the  Easter tournament at King Arthur’s court, giv -  ing him a suit of red armor. He entered the lists  One of the Furies   (Alecto, Megaera, and Tisiphone)  Aleine   4 

=== 페이지 65 ===
unknown and won a vacant seat at the Round  Table.  See also:   arthur; easter; gwain; perceval;  round table  Alexander Nevsky   (1220–1263)   In Russian  legend,   prince-saint   who   defended   Russia  against foreign invaders. The heroic personality  Alexander Nevsky, the first prince of Novgorod  and (after 1252) great prince of Vladimir and  all Russia, is one of the heroes of both Imperial  and Soviet Russia. His most famous exploit  was the Russian defense of Novgorod in 1242  against the invading Knights of the Teutonic  Order.   Called   to   save   his   country,   Prince  Alexander, through the power of his person -  ality alone, gathered together an enormous  army and met the enemy on a frozen lake.  There he and his army dealt them a humili -  ating defeat. When the prince was laid out  for burial, the Metropolitan Archbishop Cyril  wanted to place in the prince’s hand a “charter  with prayers asking for the remission of sins.”  Alexander, “as if he were alive, extended his  hand and took the charter from the hand of the  Metropolitan Archbishop,” according to one  Russian legend.  The famous Russian movie director Sergei  Eisenstein used the legend of Alexander for his  first sound film,   Alexander Nevsky.   Made one  year before the Soviet-Nazi pact, the movie  portrays the Germans as complete barbarians.  Prokofiev’s music for the film was later adapted  by the composer for his cantata   Alexander Nevsky  for mezzo-soprano, chorus, and orchestra.  See also:   vladimir, st.  Alexander   the   Great   (he   who   wards   off  men)   (356–323   b.c.e. )   In Greek history and  legend, king of Macedonia, son of Philip II and  Olympias. He was educated by Aristotle. The  story of Alexander is a combination of history  and legend. His life appears in Greek, medi -  eval Christian, Jewish, and Islamic legends.  One legend illustrating his early life and his  relationship with his father is told in Plutarch’s  Parallel   Lives.   Philip   had   a   beautiful   white  horse, Bucephalus, which could not be tamed.  When Alexander succeeded in breaking the  horse, Philip is said to have told him that he,  Alexander, must seek a larger kingdom because  Macedonia was not large enough to reflect  his greatness. Alexander’s compassion is the  subject of another legend in Plutarch’s work. It  tells of a matron of Thebes who had been raped  by one of Alexander’s captains after Alexander  had sacked that city. She told her captor that  she kept her jewels at the bottom of a well.  When   the   officer   went   to   fetch   them,   she  pushed him in. Alexander did not punish the  woman because he said she did the right thing.  Plutarch   also   tells   the   tale   of   the   Gordian  knot. During his war against the Persian king  Darius, Alexander entered the Phrygian city  of Gordium. Here there was a chariot bound  with cords in a knot so complex that whoever  could untie it would be the ruler of the world.  Alexander cut the knot with his sword and took  the city. When Alexander became ill, no one  would treat him for fear of the consequences if  they failed. His friend Philip, however, agreed  to procure him medicine. Alexander had just  received   a   letter   from   one   of   his   generals,  Parmenio, that said Philip would murder him.  To show his trust in Philip, he showed him the  letter while he took the medicine.  Other legends portray Alexander’s gener -  osity. After his victory over Darius he treated  Darius’s family kindly. When Darius was killed  by his own men, he gave his last message to  Alexander and asked him to care for his family,  which Alexander did.  Painters, especially those of the 17th cen -  tury, frequently portrayed Alexander’s marriage  to Roxana. She was the daughter of a chieftain  of Sogdiana, one of the conquered territories  of Asia. There are also stories of her cruelty  after his death. Cassander is said to have put  her to death.  Alexander reached Egypt in the autumn of  332   b.c.e.   According to one legend, he consulted  the oracle of Zeus-Amen (Ammon) (a composite  4    Alexander Nevsky

=== 페이지 66 ===
god made up of the Greek god Zeus and the  Egyptian god Amen) in the Siwa oasis. Amen  recognized Alexander as his son and promised  him control over the entire world. A short time  later Alexander was crowned king of Egypt in  the temple of Ptah at Memphis. On his way  to the shrine of Zeus-Amen, Alexander made  a stop at Rhacotia, a small fishing village and  former frontier post of the pharaohs. Realizing  the advantages of the site, Alexander decided to  build a new city, to be called Alexandria. The  layout of the city was geometric, with wide  streets on a rectangular grid. The plan was  drawn up by Deinocrates, an architect from  Rhodes, and by Cleomenes of Naucratis, who  was in charge of the project. According to one  legend, the city was in the shape of a Greek gar -  ment. The perimeter was laid out by dropping  seeds, which birds promptly ate. This seemingly  bad omen was interpreted as a good sign by  Alexander. Later he left Alexandria and died in  Asia. Ptolemy, one of Alexander’s generals, was  responsible for returning his body to Egypt, and  he erected a magnificent tomb for his leader in  Alexandria. When Julius Caesar was in Egypt,  he asked to see the tomb of Alexander. The  emperor Caracalla is reported to have stolen  Alexander’s sword from his body. Despite these  persistent legends, the burial places of Alexander  and the Ptolemies have not been discovered.  The   Alexander   Romance   (second   century  b.c.e. ) added numerous mythical episodes to  the life of Alexander, such as a trip to the heav -  ens. Most medieval legends of Alexander were  influenced   by   this   work.   Alexander   appears  among the Nine Worthies, or Men of Worth,  a grouping popular during the Middle Ages.  The Latin poem   Alexandreis   (12th century) was  very popular, as well as the long French work  Roman d’Alexandre.   Alexander appears in one  of Racine’s early plays, as well as in Dryden’s  poem   Alexander’s Feast,   and he is the subject of  a novel,   Fire from Heaven,   by Mary Renault. In  art there is Pinturicchio’s   Triumph of Alexander,  Jordaens’s tapestries, Aldorfer’s   Alexander’s Vic -  tory   (one of Napoleon’s favorite artworks), and  Veronese’s   The Family of Darius Before Alexan -  der.   There are more than 100 operas based on  episodes from Alexander’s life, though none are  currently popular.  See also:   amen; aristotle; gordian knot;  nine worthies; ptah; zeus  Alf   (elf)   In Norse mythology, a dwarf men -  tioned in the   Voluspa,   a poem in the   Poetic Edda  that tells of the creation and destruction of the  world. The name Alf is used also for a number  of other dwarfs and other characters. From it  comes, through Old English, the word   elf.  See also:   elves;   prose edda  Alfadir   (Alfadur) (all-father)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, a title for Odin, chief of the gods, and often  used in Christian times for God. In the   Prose  Edda   the Alfadir is said to have existed “from all  ages.” He formed “heaven and earth, and the  air, and all things thereunto belonging.” Also in  the   Prose Edda   it is said: “Odin is the foremost  and eldest of the aesir; he rules all things, and as  powerful as the other gods are, they serve him as  children do a father.   .   .   . Odin is called Alfadir.”  He is credited with the creation of man and is  said to have “given him a soul which shall live  and never perish though the body shall have  moldered away, or have been burnt to ashes.  And all that are righteous shall dwell with him in  a place called Gimli, or Vingolf; but the wicked  shall go to Hel, and thence to Niflheim, which is  below, in the ninth world.”  See also:   aesir; odin; hel; niflheim;   prose  edda  Alfar   (elves or dwarfs)   In Norse mythology,  the elves or dwarfs ruled over by the god Frey.  The   Prose Edda   gives an account of their origin:  Then the gods, seating themselves upon  their   thrones,   distributed   justice,   and  bethought them how the dwarfs had been  bred in the mould of the earth, just as worms  are in a dead body. It was, in fact, in Ymir’s  flesh that the dwarfs were engendered, and  Alfar   4 

=== 페이지 67 ===
began to move and live. At first they were  only maggots, but by the will of the gods  they at length partook both of human shape  and understanding, although they always  dwell in rocks and caverns. Modsognir and  Durin are the principal ones.  From Alfar are derived all small creatures,  such as alvors, elves, brownies, and ras found  in northern myths and legends. Two groups  of Alfar are cited, the   liosalfar   (light elves) who  live in Alfheim, and the   dockalfar   (dark elves)  who live underground and are mostly of an evil  nature. Other names used are   huldu folk   (hid -  den folk) and   liufliger   (darlings).  The dark dwarfs were so ugly, with their  dark skin, green eyes, large heads, short legs,  and crows’ feet, that the gods forced them,  under penalty of being turned to stone, to live  underground and never show themselves dur -  ing the daytime. Although less powerful than  the gods, the dwarfs were far more powerful  than men. In northern folklore and legends,  dwarfs transport themselves easily from one  place to another. They wear red capes that can  make them invisible. They like to hide behind  rocks and mischievously repeat the last words  of every conversation they overhear. Echoes  are therefore called “dwarfs’ talk.” In various  countries of northern Europe their ruler is  called Andvari, Alberich, Elbegast, Gondemar,  Laurin, or Oberon.  Generally, dwarfs in northern legends and  tales are kind and helpful. Sometimes they  knead bread, grind flour, brew beer, and per -  form countless other tasks. If ill-treated, how -  ever, or laughed at, they will leave a house.  When Christianity replaced the northern gods,  the dwarfs, in anger, left forever to punish the  people for their lack of belief in the old gods.  According to some northern legends, dwarfs  envied   man’s   taller   stature   and   often   tried  to   increase   their   race’s   height   by   marrying  human wives or stealing unbaptized children  and substituting their own offspring for the  human mother to nurse. These dwarf babies  were known as changelings. To recover the  true child and rid herself of the changeling, a  woman had either to brew beer in eggshells or  to grease the soles of the changeling’s feet and  hold them so near the flames that, attracted  by their babies’ cries, the dwarf parents would  come to claim their own child and bring back  the human child.  Female dwarfs were believed able to change  themselves into maras (or nightmares). If a  victim succeeded in plugging the hole through  which a mara made her entrance into his room,  she was then at his mercy—he could even  marry her. She would be his faithful wife as  long as the hole by which she had entered was  plugged. If it was open, she would escape.  The   Prose Edda   gives an account of the ori -  gin of the Alfar. Offerings of milk, honey, or a  small animal was made to the Alfar.  See   also:   alfheim; andvari; frey;   prose  edda  Alfasem   In Arthurian legend, the king of  Terre   Foraine,   converted   and   baptized   by  Alains, keeper of the Holy Grail. Alfasem was  wounded in both thighs by an angel for sleep -  ing where the Grail had rested. He later died  of the wounds.  See also:   holy grail  Alfheim   (elf home)   In Norse mythology,  home of the light elves or dwarfs, as well as of  the god Frey. It was located in the air between  heaven and earth. In the   Prose Edda   Snorri  Sturluson makes a distinction between light  and dark elves: “There is yet that place, which  is called Alfheim; there lives that people, who  are called the light-elves, but the dark-elves  dwell down in the earth,   .   .   . The light-elves  are fairer than the sun in appearance, but the  dark-elves are blacker than pitch.” Sir Walter  Scott, in his poem “Thomas the Rhymer,”  in   Contributions to the Minstrelsy of the Scottish  Border: Imitations of the Ancient Ballad,   uses the  words   Elfland   and   Elflyn land.  See also:   alf; frey;   prose edda  50   Alfasem

=== 페이지 68 ===
Ali   (600?–661)   In Islamic legend, husband  of   Fatima,   one   of   Muhammad’s   daughters;  fourth   caliph   (656–661).   Numerous   legends  collected around Ali, as both saint and warrior.  He is credited with many miracles, such as  raising a man from the dead. Persian Muslims  speak of more than 1,000 miracles, although  only   60   are   recorded.   Some   Muslim   sects  believe that Allah became incarnate in the per -  son of Ali by “indwelling.” The Nusairi sects  regard Ali as the first of the three persons of  the Trinity.  As a warrior Ali is said to have killed 523  men in one day. His sword cut them from  their horses with such speed that half of each  body remained on the horse while the other  half fell to the ground. Ali is famous in Persian  poetry for his beautiful eyes. The expression  Ayn Hali   (the eyes of Ali) is a term of praise  for a person’s beauty. Ali was assassinated in  661 by being struck on the forehead with a  poisoned saber.  See also:   allah; fatima; muhammad  Ali Baba   Hero of the tale “Ali Baba and the  Forty Thieves” included in   The Thousand and  One Nights   but not in any manuscript copy of  the work. It first appeared in the French trans -  lation of the   Nights   by Galland, who heard the  tale from a Christian Syrian, Youhenna Diab.  Ali Baba and his brother Kassim live in Per -  sia. One day Ali Baba, while collecting wood  in the forest, sees 40 thieves enter a cave after  saying: “Open, Sesame!” At the first oppor -  tunity Ali goes to the cave and says the magic  words. It opens, and he discovers that the cave  is filled with gold and treasure. He takes some  of it home, and in a short time his brother also  discovers the secret. Kassim enters the cave  but forgets the magic words needed to get out.  The thieves return, kill Kassim, cut him into  quarters, and hang him in the cave.  Ali goes in search of his brother and, finding  the body, takes it to a cobbler who can sew it  back together so that Kassim’s death will appear  natural. Through the cobbler, the thieves come  in search of Ali in order to kill him too. The  head thief poses as an oil merchant and enters  Ali’s house. He asks Ali if he may store his oil  jars in the shed, and Ali agrees. A thief is hid -  ing in each of the jars except one, waiting to  kill Ali. The maid, Morgiana, needing some  oil, goes to the jars. One of the men hears her  approach and asks if it is time to come out. She  replies, “Not yet.” Deciding that they must  be robbers, she fills a caldron from the single  jar that contains oil and pours the oil over the  thieves, killing all of them. Ali, in gratitude,  then marries Morgiana to his nephew, or in  some versions to his son.  The tale of Ali Baba is one of the most popu -  lar in the entire collection. It was made into an  opera seven times and was filmed in 1902, 1919,  1943, 1952, and 1962. Comic variations, with  Eddie Cantor in 1938 ( Ali Baba Goes to Town )  and Fernandel in 1954, also have been filmed.  Hidden treasure is a common legend motif.  See   also:   motif;   thousand   and   one  nights, the  Ali Baba   5   Ali Baba   (Aubrey Beardsley)

=== 페이지 69 ===
Aliosha Popovich   (Aljosa Popovic)   (11th  century   c.e. )   In Russian legend,   bogatyr   (epic  hero) who appears in the   bylini   (epic songs) and  in folktales. Aliosha was one of seven legendary  bogatyri   and the son of a priest, a “mighty hero”  who grew as much in one day as other babies  did in a week, and he achieved a year’s growth  in one week. When he was fully grown, he  asked his father if he could “try his luck in the  field of battle.” His father agreed if he would  take along Maryshko Parnov’s son to be his ser -  vant. Both set out and journeyed to the realm  of Prince Vladimir, who welcomed them. At  the same time the evil Turgarin Zmeevich, “a  mighty champion, invaded and scourged Prince  Vladimir’s kingdom,” entering the palace and  eating everything in sight. Aliosha challenged  him to a duel. The next day, when the two were  to fight, Aliosha saw Turgarin Zmeevich flying  through the air on his horse. Aliosha called on  the Holy Mother of God to send a black cloud  to “wet Turgarin’s paper wings.” The prayer  was answered, and the evil one fell to earth. In  the ensuing battle Turgarin’s head was cut off  and carried on a spear to Prince Vladimir.  See also:   vladimir, st.  Alisaunder   In   Arthurian   legend,   son   of  Prince Boudwin and Anglides. His father was  killed by King Mark, and when Alisaunder  grew up, his mother handed him his father’s  doublet,   covered   with   blood.   “Avenge   your  father!” she told the youth. King Mark, how -  ever, had Alisaunder slain instead.  Al Jassasa   (Al Jassaca) (the spy)   In Islamic  mythology, the name of the beast or monster  in the Koran (sura 27) that will appear at the  Last Judgment. According to folklore, he or  she (accounts vary) will have a bull head, hog  eyes, elephant ears, stag horns, ostrich neck,  lion breasts, tiger color, a back like a cat, camel  legs, the voice of an ass, and the tail of a ram.  The beast will mark those who are saved and  those who are damned.  See also:   koran, the  Alkha   In Siberian mythology, the personifi -  cation of the darkness of the sky, a dragonlike  monster who causes eclipses of the sun and  moon. In one Buriat myth Alkha swallowed the  sun and moon, plunging the earth into utter  darkness. The gods became angry and cut his  body into two pieces, one part falling to the  earth and the forepart remaining in heaven. As  a result, although the monster continually tries  to swallow the moon and sun, each time they  fall out of his back.  In some myths Alkha is called Arakho. In  one of these, told by the Buriat, Arakho lived  on the earth eating the hairs off people’s bod -  ies. This made God angry because hair was  needed for man’s protection. As a result God  cut Arakho into two parts. Yet the monster still  tried to swallow the sun and moon. The gashes  made by Alkha’s fangs are visible on the surface  of the moon.  In a variant myth Arakho drank from a cup  prepared by the sun and moon that contained  the Water of Life. By drinking from the cup  Arakho dirtied it, and God cut him in two as  a punishment. But Arakho’s forepart became  immortal. Arakho still chases the moon, leav -  ing   his   monstrous   marks,   which   are   called  moon spots.  See also:   water of life  Al-Khadir   (Al-Khidr, El Khizr) (the green  one)   In Islamic legend, a saint who found  the Waters of Immortality or Fountain of Life.  He is believed to appear clad in green robes to  Muslims in distress. The green symbolizes his  unfading youth.  The legend of Al-Khadir appears in various  Islamic works, such as   The Thousand and One  Nights,   and is partly told in the Koran (sura 18).  When Moses, or Musa to use his Arabic name,  was preaching to the people, they admired his  knowledge and eloquence so much that they  asked him if there was any man in the world  wiser than he. Musa answered no. Allah was  not satisfied with Musa’s answer and told the  prophet that there was a man who was wiser  52   Aliosha Popovich

=== 페이지 70 ===
than he, and the man’s name was Al-Khadir.  Musa was told to go in search of Al-Khadir and  to take along his servant (who was Joshua) and a  fish. When they arrived at a certain rock where  “two seas” met, the fish disappeared. There are  different explanations for this: that the fish,  being roasted, jumped out of the basket into  the sea, or that Joshua accidentally sprinkled  on it some water from the Fountain of Life (for  though they did not know it, they had arrived  at their destination). The Koran says the “fish  took its way in the sea at will.”  Suddenly a stranger appeared. It was Al-  Khadir, but neither Musa nor Joshua was aware  of his identity. Musa said he would like to fol -  low the stranger, but the man replied that Musa  would complain about what he was going to do.  Musa promised not to complain, and they all  set out. When the stranger scuttled a boat and  Musa complained, the stranger reminded Musa  of his promise. As they continued on their  way and the stranger murdered a boy, Musa  was horrified. They then reached a city that  refused them hospitality. In it was a wall ready  to crumble, but the stranger fixed it. Musa said  he should be paid for such services.  The stranger told Musa he would at last  explain his actions. “As to the vessel,” he said,  “it belonged to a poor man who toiled upon the  sea. I was minded to damage it, for in their rear  was a king who seized every ship by force. As  to the youth, his parents were believers and we  feared lest he should trouble them by error and  infidelity. And we desired that their Lord might  give them in his place a child better than he in  virtue and nearer in filial piety. And as to the  wall, it belonged to two orphan youths in the  city, and beneath it was their treasure; and their  father was a righteous man; and the Lord desired  that they should reach the age of strength, and  take forth their treasure the mercy of thy Lord.  And not of mine own will have I done this. This  is the interpretation of that which thou couldst  not bear with patience.”  According to some Islamic traditions, Al-  Khadir is thought to be Phineas, Elias, and  St. George in one because his soul passed by  metempsychosis successively through all three.  Al-Khadir is sometimes identified with Khw -  adja Khidr, who presides over the Fountain of  Immortality in Indian Islamic belief. Khwadja  Khidr, however, is identified in many parts of  India with a river god or with the fish avatar  of the god Vishnu. Some Indian Muslims offer  prayers to Khwadja Khidr at the first shaving  of a boy. Part of the ceremony also consists of  launching a small boat. Along the Indus, Khw -  adja Khidr is often identified with the river and  is seen as an old man clothed in green. When  a man escapes drowning, he is said to have  evaded Khwadja’s domain.  See also:   avatar; george, st.; joshua; koran,  the; vishnu; water of life  Allah   In Islam, the proper name of God.  The origin of the name Allah goes back before  Muhammad, who found that the Meccans wor -  shipped   a   supreme   deity   whom   they   called  Allah. Along with Allah, however, they also  worshipped a host of lesser gods and “daughters  of Allah.” When Muhammad set down the first  article of Islam (submission), “There is no God  save Allah,” he attacked belief in any other gods  the Meccans worshipped besides Allah, who  was the true God. The best summation of the  Islamic concept of Allah is found in part of the  opening sura of the Koran, called Al-fataih:  In the Name of Allah, the Compassionate,  the Merciful. Praise be to Allah, Lord  of the worlds; The Compassionate, the  Merciful! Thee only do we worshipp, and  to Thee do we cry for help. Guide Thou  us on the straight path; The path of those  to whom thou hast been gracious.  The Al-fataih is recited several times in each  of the five daily prayers, and on many other occa -  sions, such as when concluding a bargain. The  Basmala,   “In the Name of Allah, the Compas -  sionate, the Merciful,” has become part of the  rubric at the head of every sura except the ninth  Allah   53

=== 페이지 71 ===
in the Koran. Allah is also addressed as Al-Hayn  (the living), Al-Alim (the knowing), Al-Murid  (the purposer), As-Sam (the hearer), Al-Basir  (the seer), and Al-Mutakallim (the speaker).  See also:   muhammad  Allallu   In   the   Babylonian   epic   poem  Gilgamesh,   a fantastic bird destroyed by the  goddess Ishtar. The goddess at one time loved  the bird, but she destroyed him as she did all  of her lovers. The bird then lamented his fate,  saying, “O my pinions!”  See also:   gilgamesh  Allan-a-Dale   (Allin-a-Dale,   Allen-a-Dale)  (rock, noble)   In British legend, a minstrel in  the Robin Hood ballads. Robin Hood aided  Allan-a-Dale when the minstrel carried off his  sweetheart before she could be forced to marry  a rich old knight. Allan-a-Dale also appears in  Walter Scott’s novel   Ivanhoe.  See also:   robin hood  Allen, Ethan   (1738–1789)   In American his -  tory   and   folklore,   hero   of   Vermont   during  the American Revolution who organized the  Green Mountain Boys. Legend says that when  he demanded from the British the surrender  of Fort Ticonderoga he asked it “in the name  of   the   Great   Jehovah   and   the   Continental  Congress.” In actuality, he is believed to have  said, “Come out of there, you damned old  rat!” Allen told his own story in his   Narrative  of Ethan Allen’s Captivity   and appears in Daniel  Pierce Thompson’s novel   The Greene Mountain  Boys   and Van de Water’s novel   Reluctant Rebel.  alligators in the sewers   A popular urban  legend has long reported that a thriving col -  ony of large alligators lives deep within the  bowels of the New York City sewer system.  Supposedly, baby alligators brought back as  pets from Florida have been dumped into the  sewer system when they outgrow their fish -  bowl homes. These discarded alligators grow  to immense size and daily terrorize all those  foolish enough to risk a visit into the sewer  system of the city.  Allison,   Robert   Clay   (1840–1887)   In  American history and folklore, a gunfighter  who was kind when sober and a devil when  drunk. Born in Tennessee, he left his father’s  farm to join the Confederate army. When the  war was lost, Allison went West. One account  describes him as over six feet tall, with blue  eyes, a long mustache, and hair down to his  shoulders. He had a melancholy look and was  slightly crippled from having accidentally shot  himself in the instep. His changing moods were  described by a contemporary: “He was a whale  of a fellow, and considerate of his companions;  but throw a drink into him, and he was hell  turned loose, rearin’ for a chance to shoot—in  self defense.” Another account tells how he  challenged a man to fight in an open grave; the  winner was to bury the loser.  According to one report, he led a lynching  mob that hanged a man named Charles Ken -  nedy, an accused murderer. He cut Kennedy’s  head off and put it on a pole outside the saloon.  He led yet another mob that hanged Cruz  Vega; then he tied a rope to Vega and dragged  his body through the rocks and brush. Another  tale tells how Bill Chunk met his death in 1873  when he tried to draw a gun from under a din -  ner table. The barrel of his revolver struck the  edge of the table, and Allison fired at Chunk.  Chunk’s head fell on the table and into a plate.  Clay coolly replaced his gun and went on with  his meal, demanding that the other guests at  the table do likewise. Allison died when he fell  from a wagon and one of its rear wheels passed  over his back.  All Saints’ Day   Christian feast celebrated  on 1 November to commemorate all of the  saints.   Sometime   in   the   early   part   of   the  seventh century, Pope Boniface IV obtained  permission from the emperor Phocas to turn  the Pantheon in Rome, an old pagan temple  to all of the gods and unused since the fifth  54   Allallu

=== 페이지 72 ===
century, into a place of Christian worship. On  13 May the pope dedicated the pagan temple  to St. Mary and All Martyrs. Pope Gregory III  (731–741) dedicated a chapel to All Saints in St.  Peter’s in Rome on 1 November, thus changing  the date of commemorating all saints. Some  scholars say the date was changed to coincide  with a pagan Germanic festival that honored  all of the gods, though some Christian scholars  (such as Francis X. Weiser in his   Handbook of  Christian Feasts and Customs ) say the date was  changed because the “many pilgrims who came  to Rome for the Feast of the Pantheon could  be fed more easily after the harvest than in the  spring.”  In the 15th century Pope Sixtus made All  Saints a holy day of obligation for the entire  Western,   or   Latin,   church.   The   feast   was  retained   in   The   Book   of   Common   Prayer   of  the Church of England. All Hallows’ Eve, or  Halloween, is celebrated the night before All  Saints’ Day and is now a secular celebration.  See also:   all souls’ day  All Souls’ Day   Christian feast celebrated  on 2 November to commemorate all of the  dead. In the 10th century St. Odilo, Abbot of  Cluny—who, according to Christian legend,  had heard from a pilgrim to the Holy Land  that there was an island where the groans of  the souls in Purgatory could be heard asking  for prayers to release them—issued a decree  that all monasteries of the congregation of  Cluny were to keep 2 November as a “day of  all the departed ones.” On 1 November, All  Saints’ Day, after vespers or evening prayer the  bell was to be tolled and the office of the dead  recited. On the next day three masses were to  be said for the souls in Purgatory. By the 13th  century the feast was established in the Latin,  or Western, church.  The Christian feast of All Souls is an adap -  tation of the custom of setting aside part of the  year to remember the dead, found in numerous  cultures, from ancient Babylonia and China to  the Romans. The Buddhist feast of the dead  takes place on the anniversary of the death  of Buddha, 15 April; the Romans celebrated  their feast of the dead during the Parentalia,  13 to 21 February, the end of the Roman year.  In some Roman Catholic countries food is  left at grave sites for the dead, recalling old  pagan rites. In the Philippines tomb niches  and crosses are repainted, hedges trimmed,  flowers planted, and all weeds removed from  the graves. In Poland paper sheets with black  borders, called,   Wypominki   (naming), with the  names of the family dead written on them, are  used in religious devotions during the month of  November. In the Polish custom it is said that  the souls of the departed appear on All Souls’  Day as a great light from the parish church.  When the light is seen, the parishioners know  they are to pray for the dead. In Austria the  souls of the dead are said to wander about  through the forests, sighing and praying for  their release from Purgatory. Children are told  to pray aloud when they walk through forests  and cemeteries so that the dead know they are  praying for their release.  The mixture of Christian and ancient reli -  gious rites (mainly from the Druids) is found in  Halloween, or as it was earlier called, All Hal -  lows’ Eve or All Saints’ Eve. During this time it  is believed that demons, witches, and evil spir -  its roam about the earth and must be appeased  by offerings such as sweet cakes. This recalls  the belief that the dead must be placated so as  not to disturb the living. The demons today,  however, have become the popular jack-o’-lan -  terns—pumpkins with candles or electric lights  inside—and children wearing mass-produced  costumes of witches and demons.  See also:   all saints’ day; druids.  almond   A nut tree found in warm, temper -  ate countries. In world mythology and folklore  the almond is often a symbol of the womb. In  Christian art the   mandorla   (Italian for almond)  often surrounds figures of Christ, representing  the womb of the Virgin enclosing her son. In  Genesis (43:11) the almond is among the “best  almond   55

=== 페이지 73 ===
fruits in the land.” When Aaron’s rod blos -  somed, it bore almonds overnight. His staff,  which in folklore became the magician’s wand,  plays an important part in the Exodus narra -  tive. After the Exodus from Egypt, Aaron’s  rod was placed with the rods of the other  tribes in the tabernacle; it then “budded, and  brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms,  and yielded almonds” (Num. 17:8). This was  a sign that Yahweh gave Aaron and his tribe of  Levi the exclusive right to the Hebrew priest -  hood. In Chinese symbolism the almond signi -  fies feminine beauty, fortitude in sorrow, and  watchfulness. The tale given to the Grimms by  Philip Otto Runge and generally translated in  English as “The Juniper Tree” was originally  called   “Vom   Machandelbom,”   which   means  the “Almond Tree.”  See also:   aaron; hatim; juniper; yahweh  Aloadae   (children of the threshing floor)   In  Greek   mythology,   sons   of   Poseidon   by  Iphimedia, the wife of Aloeus. Aloeus was the  son of Canace and Poseidon. The Aloadae’s  names were Ephialtes and Otus, and they grew  every year an ell in breadth and a fathom in  length. In nine years time they were 36 feet  high. Their strength was such that they chained  up the god Ares and kept him in a brazen cask  for 13 months, until their stepmother, Erioboea,  told Hermes, who came and freed his brother.  The Aloadae threatened to storm heaven by  piling Mount Ossa on Olympus and Mount  Pelion on Ossa. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11) says  they would have accomplished this feat if Apollo  had not slain them with his arrows before their  beards had grown, symbols of their strength. A  later myth tells of Ephialtes’ love for Hera, the  wife of Zeus, and Otus’s love for Artemis. Still  another variation says they were slain by Artemis  on the island of Naxos when she appeared as a  hind, which they attempted to kill. Instead their  spears killed one another by mistake. According  to another myth they were bound with snakes  to a pillar, back to back, while tormented by the  screeching of an owl in the underworld. The  two were worshipped as heroes on Naxos and in  the Boeotian Ascra, where they were regarded as  founders of the city. Both Homer’s   Iliad   (book 5)  and   Odyssey   (book 11) and Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  6) allude to them.  See   also:   aeneid,   the;   ares;   artemis;  canace; hera; hermes;   iliad, the;   iphimedia;  odyssey, the;   poseidon; zeus  Alonzo   de   Aguilar,   Don   (15th   century)  Spanish hero in the reconquest of Spain from  the Moors and the subject of various ballads.  One ballad,   The Death of Don Alonzo de Aguilar,  tells of his last mission. King Ferdinand of  Aragon, husband of Isabella, desires to rid the  Sierra of Alpuxarra, mountains not far from  Granada, of Moors who refuse to accept the  Christian faith. He chooses Don Alonzo to  lead his forces. With a thousand men Alonzo  reaches Nevada, but before he can reach the  ravine, he and his men are detected by the  Moors, who hurl rocks at them. Alonzo escapes  into the field. The ballad continues:  There, like a lion, stands at bay, in vain  besought to yield;  A thousand foes around are seen, but  none draws near to fight;  Afar, with bolt and javelin, they pierce  the steadfast knight  (John Gibson Lockhart translation).  56   Aloadae  Otus and Ephialtes   [ the Aloadae ]  Holding Ares Captive   (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 74 ===
The Moors then come down from their  hiding place and take the body. Washington  Irving’s   The Conquest of Granada   includes “The  Legend of the Death of Don Alonzo de Agui -  lar” at the end of the book.  See also:   ballad  Alope   (vixen)   In Greek mythology, daugh -  ter of Cercyon of Eleusis and, by Poseidon,  mother of Hippothoon. After Hippothoon’s  birth she exposed him in the woods to die.  When Alope’s father learned of this, he planned  to kill her, but Poseidon saved her by changing  her into a fountain. Hippothoon was saved by  some shepherds and was placed by Theseus on  his grandfather’s throne.  See also:   poseidon; theseus  alpha and omega   (A   Ω )   In the Bible, N.T.,  the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet,  used in the Book of Revelation (22:13) as a  symbol of God: “I am Alpha and Omega, the  beginning and the end, the first and the last.”  Earlier in the same book (1:3) is the verse “I am  Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end -  ing, saith the Lord,” symbolizing the beginning  of a new era.  The use of the first and last letters of an  alphabet to signify totality was used by many  cultures, including the Hebraic. The idea is  expressed in a passage in Isaiah (44:6): “Thus  saith the Lord the King of Israel, And his  Redeemer the Lord of hosts; I am the first, and  I am the last; And beside me there is no God.”  The early Christians naturally applied the  Greek letters to Christ in his role as God-  Redeemer. The symbol appears on frescoes,  monuments, lamps, etc., as early as the third  century   c.e.   in Rome and was known through -  out most of Europe by the early Middle Ages.  Often   the   Greek   letters   were   combined  with other symbolic devices. As a symbol of  Christ, they were sometimes used with the  cross. Other times they were combined with  a wreath (Christian symbol of victory over  death),   a   triangle   (symbol   of   the   Christian  Trinity), or a circle (symbol of eternity). In  some symbolism alpha resembles a compass  and omega, a torch, with God both creator (the  compass) and destroyer (fire).  See also:   bible (revelation)  Alphege, St.   (successor)   (11th century)   In  Christian legend, archbishop of Canterbury.  Feast, 19 April. He was made archbishop in  1006; six years later the Danes took the city and  the cathedral of Canterbury, killing the people  and   burning   the   city.   Alphege   was   kept   in  prison for seven months, then he was stoned to  death because he refused to pay a large ransom  for his life. Ten years after his death his body  was found “entire and incorrupt,” according to  medieval Christian legend.  Alphesiboea   (bringing many oxen, much  courted)   In Greek mythology, daughter of  Phegeus and first wife of Alcmaeon as Arsinoe.  Though Alcmaeon was unfaithful to her, she  continued to love him and was angry when  her brothers killed him. Her brothers shut  her up in a box and brought her to Agapenor,  king of Tegea, pretending that she had killed  her   husband.   Eventually   she   died,   but   not  before she had her brothers killed by the son  of Alcmaeon.  See also:   alcmaeon  Als   In Persian mythology, demonic beings,  found also in later Persian-Islamic, Christian,  and Armenian myths and legends. Als are half  human, half animal, of both sexes, who live  in   watery   and   sandy   places.   One   Christian  Armenian legend tells of an encounter St. Peter  and St. Paul had with an Al.  One day Sts. Peter and Paul were traveling  and came to a roadside where a man was sit -  ting in the sand. His hair was made of snakes,  his eyebrows of brass, his eyes of glass, and his  teeth of iron; his face was as white as snow, and  he had a tusk like a wild boar.  “What are you, you ugly, unclean, beast?”  the saints asked him.  Als   5 

=== 페이지 75 ===
“I am the wicked Al. I sit upon the child -  bearing mother, I scorch her ears and pull out  her liver. I strangle both mother and child.  Our food is the flesh of little children. We steal  unborn infants of eight months and bring them  to our demon king. The abyss, the corners of  houses, and stables are our abode.”  To prevent the Al from doing its evil work,  sabers and other weapons are placed under  a woman’s pillow. After the child’s birth the  mother is kept awake so that the Als do not  have the opportunity to catch her off guard.  See also:   paul, st.; peter, st.  Al-Safa   and   Al-Marwa   Two mounds at  Mecca that lie opposite each other. Muslims per -  form a rite called   sa’y   between the two mounds.  The rite is in memory of Hagar (in Arabic,  Hadjar), who, according to Islamic legend, ran  seven times between al-Safa and al-Marwa to  find water for her thirsty son Ishmael.  In   another   legend   Isaf   and   Na’ila   were  guilty of indecent conduct in the Kaaba, which  is located near al-Safa and al-Marwa. As a  result of their sin they were turned into stone  statues. Isaf was placed on al-Safa and Na’ila on  al-Marwa. In time pagan Arabs began to wor -  ship the two as gods.  In another tradition the hills were once the  home of night-shrieking demons. They were  removed when Muhammad took Mecca from  the pagans.  See also:   ishmael  Altis   (grove)   In Greek cult, a grove sacred  to Zeus near Olympia in which the Olympic  Games were celebrated. Statues of the champi -  ons were placed in the grove.  See also:   zeus  Altjira   (him   none   made)   In   Australian  mythology,   self-existent   creator   god   of   the  Arunta (Aranda), conceived of as a large man  with reddish skin, long hair, and the feet of  an emu. His sons also have emu-feet, but his  daughters have the feet of dogs. After creation  Altjira grew bored with the world and its peo -  ple and returned to the sky, where he displays  little concern for the affairs of humankind.  Aluluei   In Micronesian mythology, god of  seafaring. He was killed by his jealous broth -  ers but restored to life by his father, who set  numerous eyes in his head to protect him from  further harm. His eyes became the stars in  heaven and are used by sailors to navigate.  Al-Uzza   (the   strong,   the   powerful)   In  Arabian mythology, goddess whose shrine was  destroyed by order of Muhammad. Al-Uzza,  along with Manat, or Manah, the goddess of  fate and death, and al-Lat, or Allat, the sun,  formed a trinity. Al-Uzza’s shrine was located  in the valley of Nakhla on the road from Taif to  Mecca. It consisted of three   samura,   or acacia  trees. There was also a cave where animals were  sacrificed to her. The three goddesses, al-Uzza,  Manat, and al-Lat, were held in such high  regard by the Arabs that Allah once consented  to recognize them as intercessors with him. He  changed his mind, however, and ordered them  wiped out (suras 53, 22).  The pagan Arabs also worshipped another  trinity: Shamshu, the sun (a female divinity),  and   two   male   divinities,   Athtar   (the   planet  Venus) and Shahar (the moon).  See also:   muhammad  Amadis of Gaul   (love-god)   In late medieval  Spanish legend, hero who appears in an anony -  mous   prose   romance,   Amadis   of   Gaul,   first  published in 1508 in four books. Numerous  additional books by various authors were added  later. Amadis, also called the Lion Knight, from  the device on his shield, and Beltenbros (darkly  beautiful), from his physical appearance, was  the illegitimate son of Perion, king of Gaula  (Wales) and Elizena, princess of Brittany. At  his birth his mother, anxious to conceal the  boy, placed him in an ark and launched him in a  stream, which carried him to the Scottish coast.  He was then found by the knight Gandales  5    Al-Safa and Al-Marwa

=== 페이지 76 ===
and called “child of the sea.” A parchment  roll, which Gandales found around the child’s  neck, declared the boy to be the son of a king  and eventually helped to identify him. Amadis  loved Oriana (Oriane), and in one episode in  the legend the lovers came to Firm Island, once  ruled by King Apolidon, whose fantastic palace  contained the Arch of True Lovers and the  Forbidden Chamber, both used to test Amadis’s  love for Oriana. Eventually, the two were mar -  ried and had a son, Esplandian. Numerous  operas   have   been   written   about   Amadis   of  Gaul, among them Jean Baptiste Lully’s   Amadis  de Gaule ; Johann Christian Bach’s   Amadis de  Gaule ; Handel’s   Amadigi di Gaula,   sometimes  called   Oriana ;   and   Jules   Massenet’s   Amadis.  The English poet Robert Southey published an  abridged English version of the first four books  of   Amadis of Gaul   in 1803.  Amaethon   (great   plowman)   In   Celtic  mythology, culture hero, a god of agriculture  and labor in early Welsh narrative; son of Don;  brother of Gwydion. He stole a dog, lapwing,  and roebuck from Arawn, god of the dead,  causing a war called the Battle of Cath Godeau,  or Battle of the Trees, in which Gwydion trans -  formed trees into fighting men. Amaethon and  Gwydion, along with Llaw, defeated the under -  world deities.  See also:   gwydion  Amalthea   (tender)   In Greek mythology, a  goat nymph or goat who suckled the newborn  Zeus. According to one account, Amalthea was  the daughter of the Cretan king Melisseus, and  she brought up the infant Zeus on the milk of  a goat, while her sister Melissa (a bee) offered  him honey. The horn of the goat was given to  her by Zeus, with the promise that she would  always find in it whatever she wished. From  Amalthea the cornucopia passed to the river  god Achelous, who was happy to exchange for  it his own horn, which Heracles had broken  off. The cornucopia is a common attribute of  Dionysus, Plutus, and other deities associated  with the earth. In a variant myth, Amalthea  was later transformed into the star Capella.  Amalthea was the patron of shepherds and fre -  quently appears in 18th-century grottoes, such  as the Queen’s Dairy at Versailles. She appears  as a goat in an early work of the Italian sculp -  tor Bernini and in two paintings by the French  painter   Poussin.   Milton’s   Paradise   Regained  (book 2.355) refers to her horn, and Keats’s  Endymion   (II.448) refers to her role as nurse  to Zeus.  See also:   achelous; dionysus; heracles;  nymphs; plutus; zeus  Amangons   In Arthurian legend, the king of  Logres. In the wells and springs of Logres lived  damsels who fed the wayfarers with meat and  bread. One day, Amangons wronged a damsel,  carrying off her golden cup. Later, subjects  of the king followed his example; the damsels  never again appeared, and the land became  desolate.  See also:   arthur  Ama-no-hashidate   (heavenly   stairs)   (Ama-  nouki-hasi [floating bridge of heaven], Ame-  noiha-fune   [heavenly   rocking   boat])   In  Japanese mythology, bridge or stairway between  heaven and earth. On it the primeval creator  couple, Izanagi and Izanami, stood while form -  ing the earth. One day the bridge collapsed into  the sea, forming an elongated isthmus situated  to the west of Kyoto in the province of Tamba.  See also:   izanagi and izanami  Ama-no-Kawa   (Ama-no-yase-kawa,   Ame-  noyasu-no-kawa, Yasu)   In Japanese mythol -  ogy, the river of heaven, identified with the  Milky Way or the rainbow.  Ama-no-Minaka-Nushi   In Japanese Shin-  to mythology, primeval god, mentioned in the  Kojiki   (records of ancient matters), who stood  motionless in the center of the cosmos. In the  Nihongi   (chronicles   of   Japan),   written   later  than the   Kojiki,   he is called Kuni-Toko-Tachi-  Ama-no-Minaka-Nushi   5 

=== 페이지 77 ===
No-Mikoto. He is the ancestor of the primeval  creator couple, Izanagi and Izanami.  See   also:   izanagi   and   izanami;   kojiki ;  nihongi  Amant, Sir   In Arthurian legend, a knight at  the court of King Arthur, slain by King Mark  of Cornwall. Amant is mentioned in Malory’s  Morte d’Arthur.  See also:   arthur  Amareswara   (lord of the immortals)   Title  often applied to the Hindu gods Vishnu, Shiva,  and Indra. The term is also used for the 12  great   lingas   (phalluses) worshipped as forms of  the god Shiva.  See also:   indra; lingam; shiva; vishnu  Amario   (Amaryu)   In   Japanese   mythology,  the rain dragon.  Amaterasu Omikami   (heaven-shining great  goddess)   In Japanese Shinto mythology, sun  goddess, born from the left eye of Izanagi, the  great primeval creator god. She taught her  people to plant rice and weave cloth.  One of the main myths contained in the  Kojiki   (records of ancient matters) tells of the  conflict between Amaterasu and her brother  Susano, the storm god. One day Susano asked  his father, Izanagi, for permission to visit his  sister Amaterasu. But as the text says, Susano  .   .   . so greatly mortified his august sister  Amaterasu Omikami, that she hid herself  in a cave, whereupon both heaven and  earth became dark; and to entice her forth,  the eight million spirits of the Plain of  Heaven assembled trees before the cave,  bedecked with jewels, lighted bonfires, and  laughed aloud with such uproar an obscene  dance performed by a spirit-female named  Uzume   that   the   goddess   in   her   cave,  becoming   curious,   opened   the   door   to  peek out. They held a mirror before her,  the first she had ever seen: she was drawn  out, and the world again was light. (Based  on Basil H. Chamberlain translation)  After the world was restored to light, Susano  was exiled and fled to the earth, to Izumo  (Japan). His descendants gradually took posses -  sion of the land that had given them hospitality.  However, Amaterasu later regained possession  of her domains. It was then that her grandson  Ninigi no Mikoto came in person to rule the  land and married the goddess of Mount Fuji.  Ninigi was the great grandfather of Jimmu  Tenno, the first historical emperor of Japan;  thus, the royal house claimed Amaterasu as  its first ancestor. The sakaki tree, identified as  Eura ochnacea   and   Cleyera japonica,   is sacred to  the goddess. Combs are made from it for the  deity. The tree grows around shrines of the  goddess, and sprigs of it are used as offerings.  The goddess is worshipped at her great  shrine at Ise. She is sometimes called Ohirume,  Shimmei, or Tenshoko Daijin.  See   also:   izanagi   and   izanami;   jimmu  tenno;   kojiki ; susano  Ama-tsu-kami and Kuni-tsu-kami   (Ama-  tsu-Koyane)   In Japanese mythology, terms for  “heavenly gods” and “earthly gods.” However,  the distinction between the Ama-tsu-kami, who  inhabit the vast region called the Milky Way,  and the Kuni-tsu-kami, who inhabit mountains,  rivers, and trees of the earth, is not absolute:  some of the heavenly gods descend to earth, and  some of the earthly gods ascend to the heavens.  Amazons   (without breast)   In Greek mythol -  ogy,   tribe   of   female   warriors   who   lived   in  Cappadocia in Asia Minor. They had only one  breast, one having been removed in youth so  that they could more freely shoot their bows.  No men were allowed in the tribe. Mating  took   place   at   certain   seasons   with   men   of  another race, and only girl babies were kept.  If boys were born, they were killed, maimed,  or given to their fathers. The Amazons appear  in myths relating to Bellerophon, Heracles,  60   Amant, Sir

=== 페이지 78 ===
Perseus,   and   Theseus,   all   of   whom   fought  against them. Theseus kidnapped the Amazon  queen Hippolyte (Antiope). Another Amazon  queen,   Penthesilea,   aided   the   Trojans   and  was killed by Achilles during the Trojan War.  In Greek art the Amazons are portrayed as  manly women with two breasts. Usually they  are   portrayed   on   horseback,   sometimes   in  Scythian dress—a tight fur tunic with a cloak  and a kind of Phrygian cap—though some -  times they are portrayed wearing a Dorian  tunic tucked up, the right shoulder bare. The  most   famous   statues   of   Amazons   were   by  Phidias, Polyclitus, and Cresilas. The Greeks  often cited the conquest of the Amazons as a  triumph of civilization over barbarism. When  the Spanish came to the New World, they  reported that there was a race of Amazons in  Brazil. One Spanish clergyman described them  as “very tall, robust, fair, with long hair twisted  over their heads, skins around their loins and  bows and arrows in their hands, with which  they killed seven or eight Spaniards.” Amazons  are mentioned or cited in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  5), Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library, book 2),  Herodotus’s   Histories   (book 4), and Pausanias’s  Description of Greece   (book 7).  See also:   aeneid, the;   antiope; bellero -  phon; heracles; penthesilea; theseus  Ambapali   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist  legend, a courtesan of the city of Vaishaili  who offered her house to the Buddha for his  use as a meeting place. Buddha said of her,  “This woman moves in worldly circles and is  a favorite of kings and princes; yet is her heart  composed and quieted. Young in years, rich,  surrounded by pleasures, she is thoughtful and  steadfast. This, indeed, is rare in the world.”  Ambrose,   St.   (immortal)   (339–397)   In  Christian legend, Doctor of the Church, patron  saint of beekeepers, bakers of honey-bread,  domestic   animals,   geese,   and   wax   refiners.  Feast, 4 April.  Born   in   Gaul   and   trained   as   a   lawyer,  Ambrose was elected bishop of Milan when he  was 35 years old, although at the time he was  not even baptized. When this was remedied, he  took office and became noted for his strict dis -  cipline. He was a close friend of St. Augustine,  whose conversion he was partly responsible for,  with the help of Augustine’s mother, Monica.  In 384 he introduced the Ambrosian Chant  from the Eastern Church, which was used until  Ambrose, St.   6   An Amazon woman  Theseus capturing Hippolyte

=== 페이지 79 ===
Pope Gregory the Great introduced the Gre -  gorian Chant two centuries later.  As recorded in numerous sources, such as  The Golden Legend,   a series of saints’ lives writ -  ten in the 13th century by Jacobus de Vora -  gine, the most famous episode in the life of St.  Ambrose concerns his treatment of the Roman  emperor Theodosius. The emperor had killed  some 7,000 men, women, and children as pun -  ishment for a small uprising in Thessalonica,  where some of his soldiers were injured. St.  Ambrose   refused   to   let   the   ruler   enter   his  church and excommunicated him. After eight  months Ambrose consented to relent on two  conditions: first, that the emperor should pub -  lish an edict by which no capital punishment  could be executed until 30 days after convic -  tion of a crime, and second, that the emperor  should perform public penance. Theodosius  consented to the arrangement and did public  penance in the bishop’s church. The scene was  sometimes painted to symbolize the authority  of the church over secular powers, one of the  key issues during the Middle Ages.  According to another legend, when Ambrose  was an infant, a swarm of bees alighted on his  mouth without harming him. This was taken as  a sign that he would be noted for his eloquence.  The same tale is told of Plato and numerous  Christian saints. Another legend tells how a  prefect, Macedonius, closed his doors to the  pleas of a poor criminal. When he heard of it,  St. Ambrose said to Macedonius, “Thou, even  thou, shalt fly to the church for refuge, and  shalt not enter.” A short time afterward, Mace -  donius was pursued by some of his enemies and  fled for sanctuary to the church. Even though  the doors were wide open, he could not find  the entrance but walked around as a blind man  until he was slain.  In Christian art St. Ambrose is often por -  trayed as a bishop with miter and crosier. He  sometimes holds a book or a pen with the  inscription   In carne vivere preter carnem angeli -  cam et non humanam   (to be nourished by food,  but rather the food of angels, not of mortals).  See also:   augustine, st.;   golden legend,  the ; monica  ambrosia   (immortal)   In Greek mythology,  the honey-flavored food of the gods, as nectar  was their drink. Doves daily brought ambrosia  from the far west to Zeus and the other gods.  Ambrosia was also the name given to anoint -  ing oil, which was believed to preserve the  dead from decay. Homer’s   Iliad   (books 1, 14,  16, 24), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1), and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 2) all cite the magic food.  See also:   aeneid, the; iliad, the;   zeus  Amburbium   (around the city)   In Roman  cult, the name for a solemn procession of the  people, led by the pontifex and various orders  of priests, three times around the boundar -  ies of Rome. It was performed at times of  national distress. A hog, a ram, and a bull were  sacrificed, with special prayers. The rite was  adopted by the Christian church as Rogation  Days, which are set aside for the harvest and  generally are observed on the three days before  Ascension Day.  Amenhotep   (Amenophis)   In   Egyptian  history   and   legend,   sage   and   minister   of  Amenhotep III, invoked as an intercessor by  the people in times of trouble or need. He was  known for his wisdom and for the beautiful  temples he had built. Some of the architectural  features he introduced remained standard for  1,500 years. In Egyptian art Amenhotep is usu -  ally portrayed as a scribe with a roll of papyrus  on his knees.  Amesha   Spentas   (Ameshospends,   Amsha-  spands)   In Persian mythology, seven “immor -  tal bounteous ones,” or archangels, created by  the good god, Ahura Mazda, and manifesta -  tions of himself. They are  Vohu Manah—the firstborn of Ahura Mazda,  who sits at his right hand. He protects  animals   and   appeared   to   the   prophet  62   ambrosia

=== 페이지 80 ===
Zarathustra. Vohu Manah keeps a record of  men’s thoughts, words, and deeds and acts  as a recording angel. Vohu Manah is also  known as Bahman.  Asha—truth, the most beautiful of Ahura Maz -  da’s creations. She represents divine law  and moral order. Asha is also known as  Asha-Vahista or Ardabhisht. The faithful in  Zoroastrian belief are called Ashavans, fol -  lowers of the truth of Ahura Mazda.  Kshathra   Vairya—a   personification   of   god’s  might, majesty, dominion, and power. He  helps the poor and weak overcome all evil,  protects metals, and is the enemy of the  demon Savar, who is responsible for mis -  government. Kshathra Vairya is also known  as Shahrevar.  Armaiti—devotion,   the   daughter   of   Ahura  Mazda who sits at his left hand, presiding  over the earth and giving pasture to cattle.  She is the personification of faithful obe -  dience, harmony, and religious worship.  Haurvatat—integrity, a personification of sal -  vation, the spirit of health, and protector  of water and vegetation. Haurvatat is also  known as Khurdad.  Ameretat—immortality   or   deathlessness.  Ameretat, like Haurvatat, is associated with  water and vegetation.  Sraosha—obedience, the guardian of the world,  who feeds the poor and will later help judge  the world.  The Amesha Spentas are the cause of con -  siderable debate among scholars in Persian  mythology. Some scholars believe them to be  based on the ancient gods of the Indo-Ira -  nian hierarchy, some of which are also found  in Hindu mythology. Others see the seven  as   manifestations   of   the   one   god,   Ahura  Mazda, similar to the archangels in Christian  mythology.   Some   scholars,   in   fact,   believe  the   concept   of   angels   in   Jewish-Christian  mythology is derived in part from the Amesha  Spentas.  See also:   ahura mazda; zarathustra  Amfortas   In   Arthurian   legend,   the   most  famous fisher king, keeper of the Holy Grail.  In early medieval French works his title is rich  fisher, and eventually it became fisher king.  In one legend he meets Perceval while he is  fishing and invites him to his castle. Perceval  is afterward informed that because Amfortas  is wounded he is unable to mount his horse;  therefore, his only solace is fishing. Amfortas  is   also   called   the   Maimed   King,   referring  to his condition. He appears in T. S. Eliot’s  poem   The Waste Land   as well as in Wagner’s  last stage work,   Parsifal.   In Wagner’s opera  Amfortas’s   wound   is   caused   when   the   king  had been enticed into the garden of Klingsor,  the evil magician. Klingsor had determined to  secure the Holy Grail, the cup used by Jesus at  the Last Supper, as well as the spear that had  pierced Jesus’ side. Wrestling the spear from  Amfortas, Klingsor wounded the king in the  process. The wound then could only be healed  by a guileless fool, who in Wagner’s music  drama is Parsifal.  See also:   holy grail; longinus, st. perceval  Amitabha   (Buddha   of   Infinite   Light)   In  Buddhism, one of the five Dhyani-Buddhas  issuing   from   the   Adi-Buddha,   the   primor -  dial Buddha. In Pure Land Buddhism he is the  Supreme Buddha, and Vairocana is not men -  tioned. In China and Japan he is also known  as Amitayus. In Tibet, Amitayus is a subsidiary  emanation of Amitabha.  See   also:   adi-buddha; avalokiteshvara;  dhyani-buddhas; vairocana  Amnon of Mainz   (10th century)   In Jew-  ish legend, a martyr who refused to be con -  verted   to   Christianity   by   force   under   the  archbishop of Mainz. When Amnon refused,  his limbs were cut off and he was taken to the  synagogue reciting a fragment of a prayer.  After   he   died   he   appeared   in   a   dream   to  another Jew and taught him the complete  prayer.  Amnon of Mainz   63

=== 페이지 81 ===
Amoghasiddhi   In Mahayana Buddhism, one  of the five Dhyani-Buddhas. He is the Buddha  of Infallible Magic, whose symbol is the dou -  blethunderbolt and whose mount is a dwarf.  See also:   dhyani-buddhas; mahayana  Amor   (love)   In Roman mythology, a name  given to Cupid, the god of love, son of Venus  and Mars; called Eros in Greek mythology.  See also:   eros; mars; venus  Amphiaraus   (Amphiorax)   (doubly   cursed)  In Greek mythology, a hero, son of Oicleus  and   Hypermnestra;   married   Eriphyle;   father  of   Alcmeon,   Amphilocus,   Demonassa,   and  Eurydice; great-grandson of the seer Melampus.  Homer says Amphiaraus was a favorite of Zeus  and Apollo and was both a hero and a seer,  taking part in the Calydonian boar hunt, the  voyage of the Argonauts, and the expedition of  the Seven against Thebes. Amphiaraus fought  with Adrastus, but the quarrel was settled when  he married Adrastus’s sister Eriphyle. He agreed  that   any   future   difference   between   Adrastus  and himself would be settled by Eriphyle. But  Eriphyle, bribed by Polynices with the fatal  necklace   of   Polynices’   ancestress   Harmonia,  insisted that her husband, Amphiaraus, join in  the war against Thebes. Amphiaraus knew that  he would die, and he told his youthful sons  Alcmeon and Amphilocus to avenge his coming  death. He warned the other chiefs of the com -  ing disaster but was forced into a final battle  with Tydeus. In the fight, just as Amphiaraus  was about to die, Zeus opened the earth with his  thunderbolt and swallowed up Amphiaraus and  Baton, his charioteer.  Amphiaraus was worshipped at Oropus on  the frontier of Attica and Boeotis, where he  had a temple and an oracle for the interpreta -  tion of dreams. Games were also celebrated in  his honor.  See also:   adrastus; alcmaeon; amphilo -  chus; argonauts; calydonian boar hunt;  eurydice; harmonia; zeus  Amphilochus   (double   ambush)   In   Greek  mythology, son of the Argive seer Amphiaraus  and Eriphyle; Alcmaeon’s brother. Amphilochus  also was a seer and according to some accounts  took part in the war of the Epigoni, or Seven,  against Thebes, and the murder of his mother.  Amphilochus was believed to have founded the  Amphilochian Argos near Neckhori in Acarnania.  Later myths say he took part in the Trojan War.  After the fall of Troy he went with Mopsus and  founded the oracle at Mallus. However, the two  fought and killed one another for the posses -  sion of the shrine. After the funeral pyre had  consumed their bodies, their spirits, or ghosts,  became close friends. As a result, an oracle  was established in their honor. The supplicants  would write their questions on wax tablets, and  the spirits would answer them in a dream.  See also:   alcmaeon; amphiaraus  Amphion and Zethus   In Greek mythology,  the Boeotian Dioscuri, twin sons of Antiope by  Zeus. A variant account says Zethus was the son  of Epopeus. The two infants were exposed to  die on Mount Cithaeron and were rescued and  reared by a shepherd. When they grew up, they  found their mother, who had fled from imprison -  ment at Thebes, where she had been mistreated  by Dirce, the wife of Lycus, who governed  Thebes as guardian to Laius. They avenged their  mother by tying Dirce to the horns of a bull  that dragged her to her death. They then threw  Dirce’s corpse into a spring near Thebes, which  was later renamed after her. They killed Lycus  and assumed his throne, or according to a variant  account, it was given to them by Lycus when the  god Hermes told him to abdicate. They fortified  Thebes with walls and towers. Zethus brought  up the stones, while Amphion, a harper, fit them  together by the music of his lyre. Zethus married  Thebe, the daughter of Asopus or, according to a  variant account, Aëdon, daughter of Pandareos.  Amphion married Niobe. After the destruction of  his family by Apollo and Artemis as punishment  for a boast by Niobe, Amphion killed himself.  In a variant myth, Amphion was killed by Apollo  64   Amoghasiddhi

=== 페이지 82 ===
for attacking Apollo’s priests in revenge for the  god’s murder of his children. Both brothers were  said to be buried in one grave.  See also:   antiope; apollo; dioscuri; laius;  niobe; zeus  Amphisbaena   (both ways, to go)   Fantastic  two-headed poisonous serpent with legs. It  could stick one of its heads into the mouth of  the other, forming a loop, which enabled it to  roll down a road. Aeschylus’ play   Agamemnon  compares Clytemnestra, the wife and murder -  ess of Agamemnon, to the animal. During  the Christian Middle Ages the bestiaries por -  trayed the animal as a symbol of the devil.  In Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 10) Satan’s  followers are turned into scorpions, asps, and  “Amphisbaena dire.”  Amphion and Zethus, after a sculpture ( The Farnese Bull )  in the National Archaeological Museum of Naples  Amphisbaena   65

=== 페이지 83 ===
Amphitrite   (the third one who encircles, i.e.,  the sea)   In Greek mythology, a sea goddess,  daughter of Nereus and Doris (or Oceanus and  Tethys); wife of Poseidon; mother of Albion,  Benthesicyme, Charybdis, Rhode, and Triton.  Poseidon   saw   Amphitrite   dancing   with   the  Nereids on the island of Naxos and carried her  off. According to a variant account, she fled from  Poseidon to Atlas, but Poseidon’s dolphin saw  her and brought her to the god. Homer does not  call her Poseidon’s wife but a sea goddess who  beats the billows against the rocks. Amphitrite  had no separate worship or cult. She was often  portrayed with a net confining her hair, with  crabs’ claws on the crown of her head, being car -  ried by Tritons or by dolphins and other marine  animals, or drawn by them in a chariot of shells.  The Romans identified her with Salacia, their  goddess of the salt waves. Amphitrite appears  in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 1) and Keats’s  Endymion   (II.108) She appears in Poussin’s paint -  ing   The Triumph of Neptune and Amphitrite.  See   also:   atlas; dolphin; doris; nerids;  ovid; poseidon; salacia; triton  Amphitryon   (harassing on either side)   In  Greek mythology, king of Tiryns, son of Alcaeus  and Astydameia, Hipponome, or Laonome; first  husband of Alcmena; father of Iphicles; grandson  of Perseus. His father’s brother, Electryon, king  of Mycenae, went to war against Pterelaus, king  of the Taphians and Teleboans, because their sons  had carried off his cattle and slain Electryon’s  eight   sons   except   Licymnius.   Electryon   left  Amphitryon in charge of his kingdom and gave  him his daughter Alcmena to be his wife. On  Electryon’s return Amphitryon killed him in a  quarrel (or by accident). Amphitryon fled with  his future wife and her brother Licymnius to  Creon, king of Thebes. Creon was a brother of  Amphitryon’s mother. Creon purged Amphitryon  of his blood guilt for slaying Electryon and  offered him aid against Pterelaus if Amphitryon  first would render harmless the Taumessian fox.  Alcmena would not wed Amphitryon unless her  brothers’ deaths were avenged. Having rendered  the fox harmless with the help of Cephalus,  Amphitryon   marched   against   the   Taphians,  accompanied by Creon, Cephalus, and other  heroes   and   conquered   their   country.   While  Amphitryon was away at war, Zeus assumed his  likeness for the purpose of seducing Alcmena.  Later the same night, Amphitryon himself slept  with Alcmena. Two children were conceived  that night, Heracles and Iphicles. Amphitryon  was told by a seer what Zeus had done, and he  accepted both children as his sons. According  to a variant myth, he put two harmless snakes  in their crib to see which son was his and which  belonged to Zeus. Heracles seized both snakes  and killed them. Amphitryon knew then that  Iphicles   was   his   son   and   Heracles   belonged  to the god. In a variant account, it was Hera,  the wife of Zeus, who placed the snakes in the  crib, and they were poisonous and meant to kill  Heracles. Amphitryon was killed in a war with  Erginus, the Minyan king of Orchomenus.  The seduction of Alcmena by Zeus has had  special appeal to playwrights, such as the Roman  Plautus, the Frenchman Molière, and the Eng -  lishman John Dryden, with music of Henry  Purcell. Jean Giraudoux wrote   Amphitryon 38,  saying it was the 38th version of the story.  See also:   alcmena; fox; hera; heracles;  iphicles; perseus; zeus  Amrita   (immortal)   Water of life in Hindu  mythology, often identified with Soma juice, a  sacrificial libation offered to the gods, though  drunk by the officiating priests. The Soma  juice was derived from a plant. The Amrita was  produced at the churning of the ocean, when  the gods and demons, at odds with one another,  brought it forth. In some texts Amrita is called  Nir-jara and Piyusha.  Amun   (Amen,   Aman,   Ammon,   Amon,  Hammon)   (the   invisible   one)   In   Egyptian  mythology, a god whose presence could be  sensed in temples when pennants attached to  the flagstaves in front of the pylons fluttered.  Amun and his wife Amunet were part of a group  66   Amphitrite

=== 페이지 84 ===
of eight primeval gods who were known as the  Ogdoad of Hermopolis. Sometimes Amun and  the sun god Ra were combined to form the  composite god Amun-Ra. At first Amun was  merely a god of local importance. However,  after the princes of Thebes gained sovereignty  over Egypt, making their city the new capital  of the country, Amun became a prominent god  in Upper Egypt and was looked upon as “King  of the Gods.” At that time Amun’s sanctuary  at Karnak was a comparatively small building  consisting of a shrine surrounded by a few small  chambers and a forecourt with a colonnade on  two sides. When the Theban princes became  kings   of   Egypt,   their   priests   declared   their  god Amun not only another form of the great  Amun creator sun god who was worshipped  under such names as Ra and Khepera, but they  gave him all the attributes that were ascribed to  the sun gods and proclaimed him the greatest  of them all. When Amun was coupled with Ra,  forming the composite god Amun-Ra in the  Eighteenth Dynasty, he became the mysterious  creative power that was the Amun-Ra source  of all life in heaven, earth, and the underworld.  Eventually the priests of Amun claimed that  there was no other god like Amun, who was the  “one one” and had “no second.”  In Egyptian art Amun-Ra is usually por -  trayed as a bearded man with a headdress of  double plumes, various sections of which are  colored alternately red and green or red and  blue. Around his neck he wears a broad collar  or necklace, and his close-fitting kilt or tunic  is supported by elaborately worked shoulder  straps. His arms and wrists are decked with  armlets and bracelets. In his right hand is the  ankh, symbol of life, and in his left, the scepter.  The tail of a lion or bull hangs from his tunic.  Sometimes Amun-Ra is given a hawk’s head  surmounted by the solar disk encircled by a  serpent. When Amun appears with his wife,  Amunet, he is often portrayed as a frogheaded  man and she as a uraeus-headed woman. When  Amun is shown with the uraeus, Amunet is  depicted with the head of a cat.  See also:   ankh; khepera; khonsu; mut; ra;  uraeus  Amycus   (without bellowing)   In Greek myth-  ology, a giant son of Poseidon and Melië, a  nymph. Amycus would force everyone who  landed on the Bithynian coast to box with him.  When the Argonauts wished to draw water  from a spring in his country, he forbade them.  He was killed in a match with Polydeuces.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12) and Apollonius  Rhodius’s   Argonautica   (book 2) tell the tale.  See also:   argonauts; ovid; poseidon  Anael   (Haniel, Hamiel, Onoel)   In Jewish and  Christian folklore, angel. In Henry Wadsworth  Longfellow’s dramatic poem   The Golden Legend  (not to be confused with the 13th century book of  saints’ lives) Anael is one of the seven angels that  bear the star of Bethlehem. In the Old Testament  Apocrypha Book of Tobit (1:22) Anael is the  name of Tobit’s brother. His son Ahikar served as  Sennacherib’s cupbearer, accountant, and chief  administrator. Ahikar appears in many Oriental  tales as an ancient wise man.  See also:   angel  Anael   6   Amun-Ra

=== 페이지 85 ===
Anahita   (Anaitis,   Aredvi   Sura   Anahita)   In  Persian mythology, water and fertility goddess  who cleaned the seed of the male, blessed the  womb of the female, and purified the milk in a  mother’s breast. According to the Greek histo -  rian Strabo, writing in the early part of the first  century   c.e. , the daughters of noble families  had to serve in the temple of the goddess at  Anatolia as prostitutes before their marriage.  The cult of Anahita was found in Armenia  under the name of Anahit, the “great queen,”  the “one born of gold,” “the golden mother,”  who, though a fertility goddess, was not con -  nected with water, as in Persia. In Greece,  Anahita often was equated with the goddesses  Artemis and Aphrodite.  In Persian art, Anahita is portrayed as a  beautiful,   strong   woman,   wearing   a   golden  crown with eight rays and surrounded by a  hundred stars. She also wears a golden necklace  and a dress.  See also:   aphrodite; artemis  Anakims   (Rephaim)   (long-necked)   In   the  Bible, O.T., race of pre-Israelites in the Holy  Land. The term was originally an appellative,  “people of the neck” or “necklace.”  In   the   Old   Testament   the   Anakims   are  described as a tall people, whose gigantic size  terrified the Hebrews (Num. 13:28). In Jew -  ish folklore they are considered the offspring  of fallen angels and mortal women, alluding  to a belief in Genesis (6:2): “That the sons of  God [angels] saw the daughters of men that  they were fair; and they took them wives of  all which they chose.” The mystical Zohar  says the “Hebrews were like grasshoppers in  comparison   with   the   Anakims.”   Erich   Von  Däniken’s   Chariots of the Gods   argues that the  Genesis text illustrates that intelligent space  travelers visited earth during man’s early years  on the planet, becoming prototypes of “gods”  in many ancient mythologies.  See also:   zohar  Ananda   (bliss)   (fifth   century   b.c.e. )   In  Buddhist legend, one of the foremost disciples  of the Buddha; noted for his faith and devotion  and for his ability to remember all of the sutras,  or spoken words, of the Buddha. According  to some accounts he compiled the Buddhist  writings. In Buddhist art Ananda is portrayed  as a monk. In Chinese Buddhist artworks he is  often shown with Kasyapa, another disciple of  the Buddha.  See also:   buddha, the; kasyapa; sutra  Anansi   In African mythology, trickster who  was originally credited with the creation of the  world and who can transform himself into a  spider. Anansi’s exploits are presented as puz -  zles, rituals, and dilemmas common to human  interaction. He is known by such names as  Gizo, Kwaku Ananse, Nansi, and Miss Nancy.  Anansi appears in West African folktales and  is also known in the West Indies. One of the  most famous tales connected with Anansi was  the source for the black American folktale of  Br’er Rabbit and the Tar Baby. In Sierra Leone  he has a similar encounter with a Wax Girl, and  elsewhere in Africa he gets stuck to a gum man.  Anansi’s son is called Ntikuma or Tacuma.  See also:   br’er fox; br’er rabbit; coyote;  trickster; uncle remus  Anatapindaka   (one   who   gives   alms   to  the   unprotected)   (fifth   century   b.c.e. )   In  Buddhist legend, a wealthy layman friend of  the Buddha. When Anatapindaka asked the  Buddha if he should give up his wealth, the  Buddha replied: “I say unto thee, remain in thy  station of life and apply thyself with diligence  to thy enterprises. It is not life and wealth and  power that enslave men but the cleaving to life  and wealth and power.”  Anath   (Anat,   Anata,   Hanata)   In   Near  Eastern mythology (Canaanite), war goddess,  queen of heaven, mistress of the gods. In one  myth Anath obtained the help of the great god  Baal to conquer the mountains of Lebanon  6    Anahita

=== 페이지 86 ===
and build a temple in his and her honor. She  did this by making a feast and destroying all of  Baal’s enemies when they attended. Part of her  cult consisted in sacrifices of young men. One  myth reveals the goddess’s demonic nature.  Aqhat was the son of King Danel (or Daniel)  and had a magnificent bow that the goddess  wished to possess. She tried every ploy in an  unsuccessful effort to trick Aqhat into giving  her the bow and finally had him killed. At  his death, however, the earth became sterile.  Eventually, he was restored to life (though this  part is missing from the myth), but the bow  and arrows were lost or broken. Anath was  portrayed with a helmet, shield, and spear in  her right hand, a battle ax or club in her left.  The lion was her sacred animal.  See also:   aqhat; baal; daniel  Anchises   (living close by)   In Greek and  Roman mythology, father of Aeneas; king of  the Dardania; loved by Aphrodite; son of Capys  and Themiste. Aphrodite loved him for his  beauty and bore him Aeneas. When Anchises  boasted of her favor, he was either paralyzed,  killed, or struck blind by the lightning of Zeus;  accounts differ. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 2) portrays  Anchises as being borne out of the burning city  of Troy on Aeneas’s shoulders and sharing in  his wanderings over the sea until they reached  Drepanum in Sicily, where Anchises died at age  80 and was buried on Mount Eryx. Aeneas car -  rying his father is the subject of an early work  of the Italian sculptor Bernini, as well as the  subject of a painting by Raphael.  See also:   aeneas; aphrodite; zeus  Ancient of days   In the Bible, O.T., title  applied to Yahweh, the Hebrew god, in the  Book of Daniel (7:9) in the King James Version  of the Bible.  Daniel describes a vision: the “Ancient of  days did sit, whose garment was white as snow,  and the hair on his head like the pure wool; his  throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels  as burning fire” (Dan. 7:9). William Blake, the  English poet, used the term   Ancient of days   for  Urizen, his poetical creation who filled the role  of Yahweh in his personal mythology. There is  a well-known watercolor by the poet depicting  the figure. A popular hymn begins with:  Ancient of Days, who sittest throned in  glory;  To thee all knees are bent.  Other translations of Ancient of days are “a  primeval Being” (Moffatt), “a Venerable One”  (American translation), “One .   .   . crowned with  age” (Knox).  Some medieval Jewish commentators found  the application of the term to God as too  anthropomorphic and explained the title as  referring to the angel of Yahweh. Other com -  mentators see the concept going back to the  figure of the Persian good god Ahura-Mazda.  The   popular   Christian   image   of   God   the  Father as an old man wearing white is derived  from Daniel’s image of the Ancient of days.  See also:   ahura-mazda; yahweh  ancile   In ancient Roman ritual, a small, oval,  sacred shield, curved inward on either side,  believed to have fallen from heaven during the  reign of Numa. There was a prophecy that  the stability of Rome depended on the ancile;  Numa had 11 others made exactly like it so that  the real one could not be stolen. The set was  sacred to the god Mars and was entrusted to  the Salii, Roman priests who had to carry them  through the city of Rome once a year.  See also:   mars  Andersen,   Hans   Christian   (1805–1875)  Danish author of literary folktales, often based  on European folk sources; best remembered  for his   Eventyr.   Andersen was noted for his  sensitive portrayal of people. Even though he  is best known for his tales, he was also a play -  wright, a novelist and a writer of travel books.  In his autobiography,   The Fairy Tale of My Life,  he wrote: “I had experienced what it was to  Andersen, Hans Christian   6 

=== 페이지 87 ===
be poor and lonely, and to move in luxurious  surroundings; I had experienced being scorned  and honored.” In 1872, after 37 years of writ -  ing, his collected works were published in six  volumes called   Fairy Tales and Stories.   Some  of the many operas based on his fairy tales are  Alfred Bruneau’s   Le Jardin du paradis,   August  Enna’s   The Princess and the Pea,   Niels-Erich  Fougstedt’s   opera   for   radio   The   Tinderbox,  Ebke   Hamerik’s   The   Traveling   Companion,  Douglas Moore’s   The Emperor’s New Clothes,  and Stravinsky’s   The Emperor’s Nightingale. The  Red Shoes   was made into a British film of the  same title in 1948. Danny Kaye played the role  of Hans Christian Andersen in a movie by that  name in 1952.  Andhaka   (blind)   In   Hindu   mythology,   a  demon killed by the god Shiva. Andhaka had  1,000   arms   and   heads   and   2,000   eyes   and  feet. Despite all of this physical equipment,  or because of it, Andhaka walked as if he were  a blind man (symbolic of spiritual blindness).  When he tried to steal the Parijata Tree, which  perfumed the whole world with its blossoms, he  was killed by Shiva. From this feat Shiva earned  the title   Andhaka-ripu   (foe of Andhaka).  See also:   shiva  Andrew, St.   (manly)   (first century)   In the  Bible, N.T., one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus;  patron saint of Russia and Scotland; protector  of fishermen, fishmongers, and sailors. Invoked  against gout and stiff neck. Feast, 30 November.  In   the   New   Testament   Andrew   was   the  brother of St. Peter. He was one of the first two  disciples of Jesus and is considered in Christian  tradition to be the first missionary because he  brought his brother Peter to meet Jesus. In  Mark’s Gospel (1:16) both Andrew and Peter  immediately “forsook their nets” and followed  Jesus when he called them to give up their  trade as fishermen. We know nothing further of  Andrew after the Resurrection of Jesus. An   Acts  of St. Andrew,   which no longer survives com -  plete, was written in the early part of the third  century. It depicts St. Andrew as imprisoned at  Patras and describes his death by crucifixion,  though the type of cross is not mentioned, and  scholars have debated as to its form. The one  that appears most frequently in Christian art  is the X-shaped cross, called the   crux decussata.  The cross of St. Andrew appears on the Brit -  ish Union Jack, along with the crosses of St.  George and St. Patrick, representing, respec -  tively, Scotland, England, and Ireland.  According to legend, Achaius, king of the  Scots, and Hungus, king of the Pics, saw St.  Andrew’s cross in the sky before their battle  with Athelstane, which they won. They there -  fore   adopted   the   cross   of   the   saint   as   the  national emblem.  Andreas,   a narrative poem in Old English,  formerly attributed to the poet Cynewulf, is  based on an early Greek work   Acts of Andrew  and Matthias.   The poem tells of St. Andrew’s   0   Andhaka  Jesus calling Saints Peter and Andrew

=== 페이지 88 ===
mission to the Mermedonians, Ethiopian sav -  ages who had imprisoned Matthias.  According to   The Golden Legend,   a series  of saints’ lives written in the 13th century in  which numerous earlier sources were combined,  Andrew made missionary journeys to Scythian  Russia, Asia Minor, and Greece, preaching the  gospel. At Nicaea he saved the inhabitants from  seven demons that plagued them in the shape  of dogs. Later, on another journey, a dead boy  was brought to the saint. Andrew asked what  had happened and was told “seven dogs came  and strangled him.” Andrew said these were the  seven he had driven out in Nicaea.  “What wilt thou give to me if I raise him?”  he said to the father.  “I have nothing so dear as him; I shall give  him to thee,” the father replied.  Andrew then raised the boy to life, and he  became a disciple of the saint.  Other episodes tell how St. Andrew, dressed  as a pilgrim, saved a bishop from yielding to  the charms of a courtesan, who in actuality was  the devil. Another episode tells how he cured  Maximilla, wife of the Roman governor Egeas.  When she became a Christian, Maximilla dis -  continued sexual relations with her husband.  This was too much for the man to bear, and St.  Andrew was imprisoned and finally crucified  as a result.  Luther, in his   Table Talk,   tells of the custom  of young girls stripping themselves naked and  reciting prayers to St. Andrew on the eve of his  feast day, to see “what manner of man it is that  shall lead” them to the altar.  In Christian art St. Andrew is usually por -  trayed as an old man with a white beard, holding  his cross or on his knees gazing at it. Perhaps  the greatest tribute to the saint is Bernini’s mag -  nificent church of Sant’ Andrea al Quirinale in  Rome (1658–1670). It took the artist 12 years  to complete the oval building. Behind the altar  is a painting of St. Andrew’s martyrdom on the  cross. Above the altar is a statue of the saint ges -  turing toward heaven, which is symbolized by  the skylighted opening in the gold dome.  See also:   cross; george, st.;   golden legend,  the ; jesus christ; patrick, st.; peter, st.  Androcles and the Lion   Medieval Euro -  pean legend of a runaway slave who was saved by  a lion. The story may be a fable that has grown  into a Christian satire of martyrdom and fanati -  cism. Androcles fled from his evil master and hid  in a cave, where he encountered a lion that had  a thorn in its paw. Androcles removed it. Later  he was recaptured and thrown to the lions in  the arena. The lion he had helped was among  them and protected Androcles from the other  beasts. When the crowd saw this, they demand -  ed Androcles’ freedom. The legend is told in  Noctes Atticae   (Attic nights) by Aulus Gellius and  inspired George Bernard Shaw’s play   Androcles  and the Lion   (1951). Shaw’s play caricatures the  hypersensitive male with these lines:  Did um get an awful thorn into um’s toot -  sums wootsums? Has it made um too sick  to eat a nice little Christian man for um’s  breakfast? Oh, a nice little Christian man  will get um’s thorn out for um; and then um  shall eat the nice Christian man and the nice  Christian man’s nice big tender wifey pifey.  Androgeos   (man of the earth)   In Greek  mythology, son of Pasiphae and Minos, king of  Crete. He visited Athens at the first celebration  of the Panathenaea and won victories over all of  the champions. Out of jealousy, King Aegeus sent  him to fight the bull of Marathon, which killed  him. According to a variant account, Androgeos  was killed in an ambush. Minos avenged his  son’s death by making the Athenians send seven  young men and seven young girls every nine  years as victims to his Minotaur. Funeral games  were held in the Ceramicus at Athens in honor  of Androgeus, who was then named Eurygyes.  The cult is mentioned in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6),  Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (3.15.7), and Pausanias’s  Description of Greece   (1.27.9–10)  See also:   aegeus;   aeneid, the;   apollodorus;  minos; minotaur; panathenaea; pasiphae  Androgeos   

=== 페이지 89 ===
Andromache   (battle   of   men)   In   Greek  mythology, wife of Hector and daughter of  King Eetion of Cilician Thebes. In Homer’s  Iliad   she is considered one of the most mov -  ing characters, especially in her parting scene  from Hector and when she mourns his death.  In   later,   non-Homeric   myth   Achilles   kills  Andromache’s   father   and   seven   brothers.  When Troy is taken, her one son, Astyanax  (or Scamander), is hurled from the walls to  his death. As part of the spoils after the Trojan  War, Andromache was given as the prize to  Greek hero Neoptolemus, who first took her  to Epirus, then surrendered her to Hector’s  brother   Helenus.   After   Helenus’s   death  Andromache returned to Asia with Pergamus,  her son by Neoptolemus, and there she died.  In the myth as told by Euripides in his play  Andromache   and by Vergil in   The Aeneid   (book  3), Hermione, the wife of Neoptolemus, hated  Andromache because she knew her husband  cared for the woman. The theme of Racine’s  play   Andromaque   is the jealousy of Hermione.  The neoclassical French painter David painted  Andromache Mourning Hector.   There are more  than 20 operas based on Andromache’s tale,  among them one by Martin y Soler (1754–  1806) and one by Paisiello (1741–1816), both  called   Andromaca.  See also:   aeneid, the;   astyanax; hector;  iliad, the  Andromeda   (ruler of men)   In Greek myth-  ology, heroine saved by Perseus; daughter of  the Ethiopian king Cepheus, a son of Belus by  Cassiopeia; wife of Perseus; mother of Alcaeus,  Electryon, Heleus, Nestor, Perses, Sthemelus,  and Gorgophone. Cassiopeia had boasted of  being more beautiful than any of the Nereids,  and Poseidon, to punish her arrogance, sent  a flood and a sea monster. An oracle prom -  ised an end to the plague that resulted only if  Andromeda were to be exposed to the monster,  so Cepheus chained his daughter to a rock  in the sea. Andromeda was saved by the hero  Perseus and promised to him in marriage. At  the wedding a violent quarrel arose between  the king’s brother Phineus (who previously had  been betrothed to Andromeda) and Perseus.  The hero turned his rival into stone by showing  him the Gorgon’s head. Andromeda followed  Perseus to Argos and became the ancestress of  the Perseidae. Athena set Andromeda among  the stars at her death. Milton makes reference  to this in   Paradise Lost   (book 3.559). There are  numerous paintings of the rescue scene, among  the most famous being   Perseus and Andromeda  by Peter Paul Rubens. Other works are by  Titian, Piero di Cosimo, and Ingres, as well as  an earlier fresco at Pompeii. There are some 20  operas about Andromeda, one by the brother of  Franz Joseph Haydn, J. M. Haydn (1737–1806)  called   Andromeda e Perseo.  See   also:   athena;   cassiopeia;   gorgon;  nereids; nestor; perseus  Andvaranaut   (Andvari’s   ring)   In   Norse  mythology, a magic ring belonging to the  dwarf   Andvari,   stolen   by   the   fire-trickster  god, Loki. The ring was given to Hreidmar,  king of the dwarfs, in part restitution for the  murder   by   Loki   of   Hreidmar’s   son   Otter.  Andvari, however, cursed the ring so that it  would destroy all who came in contact with  it. In Germanic mythology and in Richard  Wagner’s works, the ring belongs to Alberich,  another name for Andvari. Alberich appears  in   Wagner’s   music   dramas   Der   Ring   des   2   Andromache  Andromache Fainting after Her Son  Is Hurled from the Wall   (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 90 ===
Andvaranaut    3  Perseus Saving Andromeda   (Giovanni David)

=== 페이지 91 ===
Nibelungen,   which have to do with the magic  ring and the tragedy it brings on all who  possess it. He also is portrayed by Arthur  Rackham   in   his   illustrations   for   Wagner’s  Ring Cycle.  See also:   andvari; loki;   ring des nibelun -  gen, der  Andvari   In Norse mythology, a dwarf who  is   robbed   of   his   wealth   by   Loki,   the   fire-  trickster god. He is called Alberich (elf rule)  by Wagner in   Der Ring des Nibelungen.   Once  the gods Odin, Hoenir, and Loki came down  to earth in human guise to test the hearts of  various people. They came to the land where  Hreidmar, the king of the dwarfs (or elves),  lived. The gods had not gone far when Loki  saw an otter basking in the sun. Up to his evil  tricks, Loki killed the otter, which happened to  be Hreidmar’s son Otter. He flung the lifeless  body over his shoulder, thinking it would make  a good meal.  Following his companions, Loki came at last  to Hreidmar’s house with the dead otter, which  he flung on the floor. When Hreidmar saw his  dead son, he flew into a rage. Before the gods  could act, they were bound and told they could  not be freed unless they paid for Otter’s death  with gold enough to cover his skin, inside and  out. The otter skin had the magical property  of stretching itself to any size, so no ordinary  treasure would suffice. Loki was appointed to  find enough gold. He ran to a waterfall where  the dwarf Andvari lived.  Loki did not find Andvari but instead saw  a salmon in the water, which he knew to be  Andvari in disguise. Loki caught the salmon in  a net and said he would not free him unless he  gave Loki his treasures, including the Helmet  of Dread and his hoard of gold. Only his magic  ring, Andvaranaut, was Andvari to be allowed  to keep. The ring worked like magic, collecting  rich ore. But then Loki, greedy as usual, also  took the ring. Andvari cursed it, saying anyone  who possessed the ring would be destroyed. In  the   Poetic Edda   Andvari says:  That gold which the dwarf possessed shall  to two brothers be cause of death, and  to eight princes, of dissension. From my  wealth no one shall good derive.  Loki   nevertheless   took   the   ring.   It   was  given in the payment to Hreidmar, who gloated  over his new treasure. One night his son Fafnir  killed him and took the treasure.  The myth, which is the basis of Richard  Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen,   is found in  the   Poetic Edda   and the   Volsunga Saga,   which  also influenced William Morris’s epic poem  Sigurd the Volsung and the Fall of the Niblungs.  Andvari   (Alberich)   is   portrayed   by   Arthur  Rackham in his illustrations for Wagner’s Ring  Cycle.  See also:   andvaranaut; fafnir; hoenir; loki;  odin;   prose edda ;   ring des nibelungen, der  Angarad of the Golden Hand   In Arthurian  legend, a lady at the court of King Arthur who  is loved by Sir Peredur, a knight of the Round  Table. She, however, scorns Peredur, and he  vows never to speak until she loves him above  all men. After a series of adventures, in which  he is called the “Dumb Youth” or the “Young  Mute,” he appears at court but is so changed by  his ordeals that he goes unrecognized. Angarad,  not knowing it is Peredur, is so moved that she  says she loves him above all men. Peredur is  then released from his vow.  See also:   arthur; round table  angel   (messenger)   In Jewish, Christian, and  Islamic   mythology,   supernatural   being   who  acts as an intermediary between God and man.  The seven holy angels are Michael, Gabriel,  Raphael, Uriel, Chamuel, Jophiel, and Zodkiel.  Only Michael and Gabriel are mentioned in the  Bible. Raphael is mentioned in the Apocrypha,  and the others are in the apocryphal book  Enoch. The Old Testament contains numer -  ous references to angels. Sometimes, however,  when the expression “angel of the Lord” or  “angel of Yahweh” is used, it refers to God   4   Andvari

=== 페이지 92 ===
himself, particularly in the earlier books of the  Bible (for example Gen. 22:11–12). In later  books, such as the Book of Daniel, angels are  separate from God. The angel Michael is called  a “prince” of Israel. By New Testament times  belief in good and evil angels was accepted in  both Christian and Jewish belief.  Angels multiplied at such a rate in the writ -  ings of both Jews and Christians that it was  felt necessary to put them into some order.  Various early Church writers attempted this.  Dionysius the Areopagite, a mystical theolo -  gian of the fifth century, divided the heavenly  host into nine orders: seraphim, cherubim, and  thrones in the first circle; dominions, virtues,  and powers in the second circle; and principali -  ties, archangels, and angels in the third circle.  Other writers, both Christian and Jewish, such  as St. Ambrose, St. Gregory the Great, and  St. Jerome, also made up different lists, some  with nine orders, some with seven. Dante’s list  contains nine orders of angels, whereas Moses  Maimonides’ list contains 10.  The Koran based its angelology in part on  Jewish and Christian writings. It frequently  mentions angels, or   malaika,   who bear wit -  ness to Allah (sura 3). The righteous must also  believe in angels (sura 2). A succinct account  of belief in angels is given in sura 13, subtitled  “Thunder”: “Each hath a succession of angels  before him, who watch over him by God’s  behest.”  The Koranic statement reflects the belief,  held also in Judaism and Christianity, that indi -  viduals and also countries have guardian angels.  St. Basil of Caesarea believed each nation had  a guardian angel, and in Jewish belief each  nation has either a demon or an angel watch -  ing over it. The English writer Robert Burton,  in his   The Anatomy of Melancholy,   written in the  17th century, says, “Every man has a good and  bad angel attending him in particular, all his  life long.” His statement reflects the Roman  Catholic belief found in the Feast of the Holy  Guardian   Angels,   observed   on   2   October,  which has as its collect: “God, who in thy  transcendent providence deignest to send thy  holy angels to watch over us, grant our humble  petition that we may ever be safe under their  protection, and may rejoice in their compan -  ionship through all eternity.” Popular prints  portraying an angel guiding a child are still sold  today with an appropriate prayer:  Guardian angel, my guardian dear  To whom God’s love commits me here,  Ever this day be at my side,  To rule and guide,  To guide and rule,  Amen.  In Christian art angels first appeared as  young men without wings. By the fourth cen -  tury winged angels with long hair and flow -  ing robes, derived from copies of Greek and  angel    5  Angels taking soul to heaven

=== 페이지 93 ===
Roman victory statues, occur in some works.  During the fifth century, winged angels with  halos, robed in white, appear in scenes taken  from the New Testament, as in the mosaic of  the   Annunciation   in Santa Maria Maggiore in  Rome. Yet when angels appeared in Old Tes -  tament scenes, they were usually wingless. By  the ninth century the winged angels had finally  taken the field. Rembrandt, in his painting  Manoah’s Sacrifice,   returned to the old usage and  omitted wings on his angel, though he often  painted winged angels. Dante Gabriel Rossetti,  in his painting the   Annunciation,   has a wing -  less angel confront a rather frightened Virgin  Mary. Islamic art does not allow the depiction  of human beings nor of angels, but Persian art,  when it treats Islamic themes, shows angels as  delicate creatures with multicolored wings, as  in   The Angel Gabriel Appearing to Muhammed   in  a manuscript of Jai’al-Tawarikh.  Angels are not confined to canvases and  books but also appear in numerous movies,  such as the early silent film   Intolerance.   In 1936  Green Pastures   featured an angel, and in 1941  Here Comes Mr. Jordan   told the story of a boxer  in a plane crash who died before his time was  up, so an angel, played by Claude Rains, was  assigned the task of finding him a new body. In  Heaven Only Knows   an angel comes to earth to  reform a Western badman, and in   The Bishop’s  Wife   Cary Grant played an angel who comes to  earth to aid in the lives of various people.  See also:   allah; ambrose, st.; basil, st.;  cherubim; gregory the great, st.; jerome, st.;  michael; seraphim; virgin mary; yahweh  Angelica   (angel, messenger)   In the Charle-  magne   cycle   of   legends,   the   heroine   who  appears in Italian versions of the tale of Orlando  (Roland). Angelica was “the fairest of her sex.”  Daughter of Galafhron, king of Cathay (China),  she was sent to Paris to sow discord among the   6   Angelica  The Angel Rolling the Stone Away from  the Sepulchre   (William Blake)  The Recording Angel   (William Blake)

=== 페이지 94 ===
Christians. Orlando fell in love with her, but  Angelica did not return his love. Instead, she  was   passionately   in   love   with   Rinaldo.   He,  however, hated her. But when Angelica and  Rinaldo drank from a magic fountain, he fell in  love with her, and she began to despise him. In  Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso,   Charlemagne sends  Angelica to the duke of Bavaria, but she escapes  from the castle, only to be seized and bound  naked to a rock guarded by a sea monster. Later  she is freed by Rogero. Eventually, Angelica  marries Medoro, a young Moor, and returns to  Cathay, where Medoro succeeds to the throne  of her father.  See also:   charlemagne; rinaldo; roland  Angel   of   Hadley   In   American   history  and folklore, popular name given to General  William   Goffe   (died   c.   1679),   an   English  Puritan who hid from Royalist forces in the  American colonies. Having signed the death  warrant of King Charles I (1649), Goffe fled  England when the Royalists returned to power.  He disappeared from sight, then reappeared in  Hadley, Massachusetts, when the village was  being attacked by a band of Indians.  According to legend, a tall man, of stern look,  wearing elkskin garments and carrying a sword  and gun, appeared. “Men and brethren,” he said  to the people, “why sink your hearts? and why  are you thus disquieted? Fear ye that the God  we serve will give ye up to yonder heathen dogs?  Follow me; and ye shall see that this day there is  a captain in Israel.” Spurred on by these heroic  words, the people fought off the Indians. When  they wished to thank the stranger who had saved  them, he replied: “Not unto me be the glory. I  am but the implement frail as yourselves in the  hand of Him who is strong to deliver.” Then as  suddenly as he appeared, he disappeared.  In Sir Walter Scott’s novel   Peveril of the Peak  one of the characters, Bridgenorth, narrates  the incident. It also appears in James Fenimore  Cooper’s novel   Wept of Wish-ton-Wish,   but its  most striking use is made by Hawthorne in  his short story “The Gray Champion,” part of  Twice Told Tales,   in which the name and locale  are changed but the basic legend maintained.  The Angel of Hadley is a good example of a  revenant, someone who returns from the dead.  See also:   revenant  Angry Acrobat, The   Moral fable by the  Persian poet Sadi, in his   The Gulistan   (chapter  2, story 43). A holy man saw an acrobat in a  great dudgeon, full of wrath and foaming at the  mouth. “What is the matter with this fellow?”  the holy man asked. “Someone has insulted  him,” a bystander replied. “This poor fellow is  able to lift hundreds of pounds and hasn’t the  power to bear one word,” the holy man said.  See also:   gulistan, the  Angurboda   (Angrbotha)   (one   who   bodes  danger or sorrow)   In Norse mythology, a  hideous giantess; wife of the fire-trickster god,  Loki;   mother   of   three   monsters,   the   wolf  Fenrir, the goddess of death (Hel), and the  gigantic Midgard serpent. Angurboda appears  in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   fenrir; hel; loki; midgard ser -  pent;   prose edda  Angurboda     Ruggiero Fights the Sea Monster That  Threatens Angelica   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 95 ===
Anhanga   In the mythology of the Amazonian  Indians of Brazil, a name for the devil, used  along   with   Korupira,   who   was   the   demon  of the forest and also was equated with the  devil. Anhanga is formless, living in a person’s  dream life. He loves to play pranks, often steal -  ing children. In a short tale, “The Yara,” by  the Brazilian journalist and historian Alfonso  Arinhos de Melo Franco, he is described as  having a “fearful voice” and scattering “upon  the grass and the leaves of the bushes the seeds  of the sorrows that kill.”  See also:   korupira  Animal Farm   Novel published in 1945 by  George Orwell, a satire of Stalinism and the  Russian Revolution. The story, which resembles  a modern fable and takes place on a farm some -  where in England, is told in the third person.  The oldest pig on the farm, Old Major, calls a  secret meeting and tells the other animals about  his dream of a revolution against the farmer,  Mr. Jones. Major dies, but two other pigs,  Napoleon and Snowball, take up his dream.  Napoleon is big but not articulate; Snowball  is a better speaker. Together with another pig,  called Squealer, they promote their theory of  “Animalism.” They begin a rebellion when Mr.  Jones comes home drunk one night and for -  gets to feed the animals. They go to the house  where the food is stored, but Mr. Jones tries to  frighten them with his shotgun. The animals,  however, drive him off the farm and destroy all  of the whips, nose rings, reins, and the other  instruments that have been used to suppress  them. The same day the animals celebrate by  making up seven commandments, which they  post above the door of the big barn.  1.   Whatever   goes   upon   two   legs   is   an  enemy.  2.   Whatever goes upon four legs or has  wings is a friend.  3.   No animal shall wear clothes.  4.   No animal shall sleep in a bed.  5.   No animal shall drink alcohol.  6.   No animal shall kill another animal.  7.   All animals are equal.  The animals also agree that no animal shall  have contact with humans.  After a while, Jones comes back with some  other men from the village to recapture the  farm. The animals fight bravely, and Snowball  and Boxer receive medals for defending the  farm. But Napoleon, who did not fight at all,  also receives a medal. When Snowball decides to  build a windmill to produce electricity, Napoleon  calls nine strong dogs. The dogs drive Snowball  from the farm, and Napoleon says Snowball had  been cooperating with Mr. Jones. The animals  then start building the windmill, but in time  the work increases and the food ration declines.  The common animals do not have enough food,  but the pigs get fatter and fatter. They then tell  the other animals that they have begun trade  with the neighbors, which is disturbing to the  common animals since they had been told that  no animal should trade with humans. Then the  pigs move into the farm house, and the other  animals remember that they had been forbidden  to sleep in beds. The fourth commandment on  the barn door has been changed to read: “No  animal shall sleep in a bed with sheets.” Other  commandments have also been changed. When  the windmill is damaged by a storm, Napoleon  accuses Snowball.  Once again Jones attacks the farm, and the  windmill is destroyed. While they are rebuild -  ing the mill, Boxer breaks down and is sold to  a butcher. Napoleon says that Boxer had been  brought to a hospital where he died. When the  mill is finished and the farm restored, Napoleon  invites the neighbors to their farm, where they  celebrate its efficiency. During the celebration  all the other animals gather at the window of  the farm, and when they look inside they can  not distinguish between man and animal.  Animisha   In Hindu mythology, epithet often  applied to various gods, such as Vishnu, Shiva,  and Indra, meaning “who does not wink.” All     Anhanga

=== 페이지 96 ===
of the gods are said to have nonblinking eyes  as one of their characteristics. That is how  they can be spotted as gods when they assume  human form.  See also:   indra; shiva; vishnu  Anius   (grievous,   troublesome)   In   Greek  mythology, son of Apollo by Rhoeo (or Creusa).  Rhoeo’s father, Staphylus of Naxos, a son of  Dionysus and Ariadne, put Rhoeo to sea in a  box. Rhoeo was carried to Delos and there gave  birth to her son Anius. Apollo taught Anius div -  ination and made him priest-king over Delos.  Because they were descendants of Dionysus, the  daughters of Anius by the nymph Dorippe—  called Oeno, Spermo, and Elais—had the gift  of turning anything they pleased into wine,  corn, or oil. When Agamemnon set sail for the  Trojan War, he wished to take the three women  to help supply his troops with food. They com -  plained to Dionysus, who transformed them  into doves. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 3) and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 13) tell the story.  See also:   aeneid, the;   agamemnon; anius;  apollo; ariadne; dionysus; nymphs  ankh   Egyptian hieroglyph for “life,” a styl -  ization of a sandal strap, later identified with  the Greek tau cross and the Christian   crux  ansata.   The tau cross is often identified with  the Egyptian hermit St. Anthony the Abbot  and was worn by the Knights of St. Anthony,  established in 1352.  See also:   amun; isis; mut; neith; nut; ra;  tem; thoth; wenenut  Anna   (grace, favor)   and Joachim   (the Lord  will establish),   Sts.   (first century)   In Chris-  tian legend, parents of the Virgin Mary. Feasts,  26 July for Anna and 20 March for Joachim.  Neither Anna nor Joachim is mentioned in the  New Testament. Their legend is found in vari -  ous early apocryphal writings that circulated  within the early Church. One of the major  sources is   The Gospel of the Birth of Mary,   once  ascribed to St. Matthew and translated from  Greek into Latin in the fourth century by St.  Jerome.  Joachim was from Nazareth and Anna from  Bethlehem; both were of the royal house of  King David. The couple was rich but also  childless.   One   day,   when   Joachim   brought  his offering to the temple, it was refused by  the high priest, Issachar, because Joachim had  no   children.   Joachim   was   afraid   to   return  home, but an angel appeared to him telling  him he would be a father. Afterward the angel  appeared to Anna, his wife, saying: “Fear not,  neither think that which you see is a spirit.  For I am that angel who hath offered up your  prayers and alms before God, and now sent to  you, that I may inform you, a daughter will be  born unto you, who shall be called Mary, and  shall be blessed above all women.”  As foretold by the angel, the two met at the  Golden Gate. Anna embraced her husband,  “hanging about his neck,” according to another  apocryphal   account,   The   Protevangelion.   She  said, “Now I know that the Lord had greatly  blessed me. For behold, I who was a widow am  no longer a widow, and I who was barren shall  conceive.” Then they returned home together.  Anna gave birth to a girl, who was called Mary,  which in Hebrew is Miriam.  The Franciscans were not satisfied with the  apocryphal accounts of Mary’s birth and added  to the legend. They believed that Mary was  Anna and Joachim, Sts.     Ankh

=== 페이지 97 ===
conceived when Anna and Joachim kissed at  the Golden Gate in Jerusalem. This part of the  legend is one of the most popular subjects in  Christian art. The whole legend forms part of  a series of frescoes done by Giotto.  St. Anna is one of the most popular saints  in the Roman Catholic church. About 550 the  emperor Justinian I built a church in her honor  at Constantinople, and her relics were removed  there from Palestine in 710.  See also:   jerome, st.; matthew, st.; virgin  mary  Anna   Perenna   In   Roman   mythology,   an  ancient Italian goddess believed to be associ -  ated with the revolving year. Every month she  renewed her youth and was therefore regarded  as a goddess who bestowed long life. On the  Ides (15th) of March (then the first month of  the year) the Romans held a feast in her honor  at the first milestone on the Flaminian Way.  In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 2) Anna Perenna is  identified as Dido’s sister. According to a later  account, she fled to Aeneas in Italy after the  death   of   her   sister   Dido.   Lavinia,   Aeneas’s  wife, was jealous of her, however, and plotted  her ruin. In despair Anna Perenna threw her -  self into the Numicius, becoming a nymph or  goddess of the river. Ovid’s   Fasti   (3) tells of the  goddess and her feast.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   dido; lavinia;  nymphs; ovid  Annie   Christmas   In   American   folklore,  legendary whore of New Orleans, from the  pen of Lyle Saxon, Louisiana local color writer.  She is found in   Fabulous New Orleans   (1930)  and also in the Louisiana collection assembled  and published under the auspices of the Works  Progress Administration,   Gumbo ya ya   (1945).  She was six feet eight inches tall, and could  outdrink any man. She could walk a gangplank  with a barrel of flour under each arm, and  one on her head. Annie ran a floating brothel  aboard a ship. She dressed in red satin and  wore a red turkey feather in her hat, a badge  of honor of the river champions. She had a 30-  foot necklace with beads made of the eyes she  had gouged out in fights or of ears or noses she  had chewed off. Mother of 12 sons, each seven  feet tall, she killed herself when she fell in love  with a man who did not return her love.  See   also:   fakelore; paul bunyan; pecos  bill; mike fink; joe magarac  Anpetu   wi   and   Hanhepi   wi   In North  American Indian mythology (Sioux), the sun  and the moon.  Anshar   (Assors, Shar) (the totality of what is  above)   In Near Eastern mythology (Sumero-  Akkadian), a primeval sky god who sent out the  god Ea, and later his son Anu, to conquer the  primeval monster of chaos, Tiamat. In some  ancient texts Anshar was regarded as the father  of the gods, though his role was later assumed  by his son Anu. In some myths he is credited  with being the father of Tiamat and is also con -  nected with the primeval god Kishar.  See also:   anu; ea  ant   A small, wingless insect, often a symbol  of industry in world folklore. Both the biblical  book of Proverbs (6:6–7) and the Aesop fable  “The Ant and the Grasshopper” use the ant as a  symbol of industry. The Japanese represent ant  in their writing by using the word   insect   com -  bined with the characters that represent unself -  ishness, justice, and courtesy. In contrast, the  Pueblo Indians of North America consider the  ant to be vindictive and the cause of disease. In  West African belief ant nests are looked upon  as homes for demons and evil spirits. In Hindu  folklore the ant symbolizes the pettiness of all  things. There are numerous motifs associated  with ants in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   aesopic fables; the ant and the  grasshopper  Antaeus   (besought   with   prayers,   rival)   In  Greek   mythology,   a   Libyan   giant   son   of  Poseidon   and   Gaea   (the   earth);   brother   of   0   Anna Perenna

=== 페이지 98 ===
Charybdis and Ogyges. Antaeus grew stronger  every time he touched his mother, the earth.  He   forced   all   strangers   who   ventured   into  his country to wrestle with him, and being  powerfully strong, he killed them. Heracles,  on   his   journey   to   fetch   the   apples   of   the  Hesperides,   was   challenged   to   wrestle   with  Antaeus. Heracles lifted him off the ground  and held him aloft—away from his mother—  until he died. Antaeus’s tomb was near Tingis  in Mauretania. One of the most striking repre -  sentations of Heracles wrestling Antaeus is the  statue by Pollaiuolo,   Hercules and Antaeus,   an  Italian Renaissance work. There is also a paint -  ing by Hans Baldung Grien (1484/85–1545)  titled   Hercules and Antaeus.   Antaeus is also the  name given to a friend of Turnus killed by  Aeneas in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 10).  See also:   aeneid, the;   gaea; heracles; hes -  perids; poseidon  Ant and the Grasshopper, The   Aesopic  fable, derived from the medieval prose version  by Phaedrus.   One frosty autumn day an ant  was busily storing away some of the kernels of  wheat he had gathered during the summer to  eat throughout the coming winter. A grasshop -  per, half perishing from hunger, came limping  by. Seeing what the industrious ant was doing,  he asked for a morsel from the ant’s store to  save his life.  “What were you doing all during the summer  while I was busy harvesting?” inquired the ant.  “Oh,” replied the grasshopper, “I was not  idle. I was singing and chirping all day long.”  “Well,” said the ant, smiling grimly as he  locked his granary door, “it looks as though you  will have to dance all winter.”  Moral:   It is thrifty to prepare today for the  wants of tomorrow.  The ant is nearly always used as an example  of hard work, as in Proverbs (6:6) in the Old  Testament. La Fontaine’s first fable deals with  this subject. It forms the basis for three French  operas, all called   La Cigale et la Fourmi,   written  in the 19th century. The fable also influenced  some North American Indian fables, which  derived the story from European versions.  See also:   aesopic fables  Antar   (Antarah)   (fl. 600)   In Arabian legend,  warrior and poet; subject of   The Romance of  Antar,   a popular narrative that developed over  the centuries. At the time   The Romance   opens,  the most powerful and best governed of the  Bedouin tribes are those of the Absians and the  Adnamians. King Zoheir, chief of the Absians,  is firmly established on the throne, and the  kings of other tribes pay him tribute. The  whole of Arabia is subject to the Absians, and  all of the inhabitants of the desert dread their  power and depredations.  Several chieftains (among whom is Shedad,  son of Zoheir) secede from the Absian tribe  and set out to seek adventures, to attack other  tribes, and to carry off cattle and treasure.  These chieftains fight against a tribe called the  Djezila, whom they defeat and whose city they  pillage. Among the booty is a black woman  of extraordinary beauty, the mother of two  children. Her name is Zebiba, her eldest son  is Djaris, and her youngest Shidoub. Shedad is  so taken by the beauty of Zebiba that he gives  up all of his booty just to possess her. They  live together, and she bears him a son, Antar,  who is born tawny as an elephant. His eyes are  bleared, his head thick with hair, his features  hard and fixed. Antar grows up strong and  becomes a protector of women, falling in love  with one named Ibla.  Antar becomes known as a brave warrior  who possesses a fabulous horse, Abjer, and a  fantastic sword, Djamy. Every time he goes  into battle or returns from combat, he intones:  “I am the lover of Ibla.” After many adventures,  in which he fights for the woman he loves,  Antar finally marries her. At one point in his  heroic life he is given the title of Alboufauris  (the father of horsemen) because of his skill  with the animal.  Rimsky-Korsakov’s   second   symphony,  Antar,   depicts a rather melancholy hero who  Antar   

=== 페이지 99 ===
is dissatisfied with women and love. The com -  poser revised the score in 1875 and in 1897,  when it was termed a symphonic suite.  antelope   Plant-eating,   cud-chewing   mam -  mal resembling a deer; it has permanent hollow  horns that molt annually. In Egyptian mythol -  ogy the antelope is associated with Anubis,  Set, Osiris, and Horus; in Roman mythology,  Minerva, goddess of wisdom, has the antelope  as one of her animals because it was believed  to have very sharp eyes. In Hindu mythology  the animal is associated with Shiva, Soma, and  Chandra. In the Rig-Veda antelopelike animals  are the steeds of the Maruts, the wind gods.  In   medieval   Christianity   the   antelope   was  symbolic of man armed with two horns, one  representing the Old Testament and the other  the New Testament.  See also:   anubis; chandra; horus; maruts;  minerva; osiris;   rig-veda ; set; shiva; soma  Antenor   (opponent)   In Greek and Roman  mythology, a Trojan, counselor to King Priam  of Troy; son of Aesyetes and Cleomestra; hus -  band of Athena’s priestess Theano, who was  the sister of Hecuba; father of 14 sons—Coon,  Demoleon, Iphidamas, Polydamas, Laodamas,  Polybus, Acamas, Agenor, Archelous, Glaucus,  Helicaon, Laocoön, Lycaon, Pedaeus (by a dif -  ferent mother), and one daughter, Crino. When  Menelaus and Odysseus came to demand the  surrender of Helen from the Trojans, Antenor  received them hospitably, protected them from  Paris, and then advised them to seek peace.  Because of this, later Greek mythology said he  betrayed the Trojans by opening the gates to  the Greeks, and as a result, when the Greeks  took the city, they spared his house and his  friends. Some accounts say he told the Greeks  to steal the Palladium, a sacred statue that  protected Troy, and that he advised making  the Trojan horse. One myth says his ship sailed  with Menelaus but was driven off course to  Cyrene. He settled there, and his descendants,  the Antenoridae, were worshipped as heroes.  Another myth tells of his leading the Veneti,  driven out of Paphlagonia, taking them by way  of Thrace and Illyria to the Adriatic and then  on to the mouth of the Paudus (Po), where  he   founded   Patavium   (Padua),   the   city   of  the Veneti. Antenor appears in Homer’s   Iliad  (book 3), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1), and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 13).  See also:   athena; hecuba; helen of troy;  iliad, the;   menelaus; odysseus; ovid; palla -  dium; priam  Anteros   (love-for-love)   In Greek mytholo -  gy, god of passion, mutual love, and tenderness;  son of Aphrodite and Ares; brother of Eros,  Delmos, Enyo, Harmmia, Pallor, and Phobos.  Aphrodite was told by Themis that her son  Eros would grow only if he had another broth -  er. As soon as Anteros was born, Eros began to  grow, and his strength increased, but whenever  Eros found himself at a distance from Anteros,  he returned to his baby form. Often Anteros  and Eros were portrayed striving to seize a  palm tree from one another, to symbolize that  true love endeavors to overcome by kindness  and gratitude. Anteros and Eros were always  portrayed in Greek academies as a symbol that  students should love their teachers. Anteros is  cited in Pausanias’s   Description of Greece.  See also:   aphrodite; ares; eros; themis  Antero Vipunen   (Wipunen)   In the Finnish  epic   poem   The   Kalevala   (rune   17),   primeval  giant   who   gave   charms   to   the   culture   hero  Vainamoinen.  Once, wanting to build a boat, Vainamoinen  asked Tapio, the forest god, to supply him with  the necessary woods. But all of the trees except  the   oak   refused   to   offer   themselves.   Vain -  amoinen began to construct the boat but dis -  covered he lacked the necessary magic words to  complete the project. After vainly seeking the  words among birds and animals, he journeyed  to Tuonela, the land of the dead. He was told  the magic words were possessed by the giant  Antero Vipunen, and Vainamoinen went to   2   antelope

=== 페이지 100 ===
seek him. Awaking Antero Vipunen from his  long sleep underground, Vainamoinen opened  the giant’s mouth, forcing him to speak, but  in the effort he slipped into the giant’s mouth.  Not wishing to remain the giant’s guest, Vaino -  moinen set up a forge, which caused intense  pain to Antero Vipunen. When the culture  hero demanded the magic words as payment  for   stopping   the   forge,   the   giant   supplied  them and let him out. With the magic words  Vainamoinen   finished   the   boat,   which   was  self-propelled. It carried him to Pohjola, the  Northland, where he wooed the Maiden of  Pohjola, who refused his advances.  The name Antero is derived from St. Andreus,  or Andrew, and Vipunen signifies the cross of  the saint, revealing the Christian influence on  the final form of the Finnish epic poem.  See also:   andrew, st.;  kalevala ,  the ; lön -  nrot, elias; tapio; vainamoinen  Anthony of Padua, St.   (praiseworthy, price -  less)   (1195–1231)   In   Christian   legend,  Doctor of the Church. Invoked to find lost  property. Feast, 13 June.  Born   in   Portugal,   Anthony   wished   to  become a missionary. He went to Italy, where  he became a follower of St. Francis of Assisi.  He was noted for his preaching and knowledge  of the Bible. There are numerous legends asso -  ciated with him, some contained in   The Little  Flowers of St. Francis,   a collection of medieval  tales and legends of St. Francis and his com -  panions. According to that source, one day as  Anthony was preaching before the pope and  cardinals, he spoke so eloquently, “so sweetly,  so clearly, and in a manner so efficacious and  so learned, that all those who were in the Con -  sistory, though they spoke different languages,  understood what he said as perfectly as if he  had spoken the language of each.”  Another legend in the same collection tells  how he preached to the fishes in Rimini after  some heretics had refused to listen to him. He  went to the seashore and placed himself on a  bank and “began to speak to the fishes .   .   . who  kept their heads out of the water” and looked  attentively at the saint. When the townspeople  heard what was happening, they came to see,  and the heretics among them were converted  by Anthony’s preaching.  Once the saint preached at the funeral of a  very rich and avaricious man. He condemned  the man, saying his heart would be found in his  treasure chest. The man’s relatives discovered  that his heart was missing from his body.  Another legend tells how the saint was  asked by a heretic to prove that Christ was  really   present   in   the   Holy   Eucharist.   The  man’s mule bowed down as Anthony carried  out the Sacrament and remained so until he  passed.   A   17th-century   legend   tells   of   the  Christ Child appearing to the saint, standing  on a book.  In Christian art St. Anthony of Padua is  portrayed as a young Franciscan, often with a  lily or crucifix in his hand, or in later paintings,  with the Christ Child standing on a book or  carried by the saint in his arms.  See also:   francis of assisi, st.  Anthony of Padua, St.    3  St. Anthony of Padua

=== 페이지 101 ===
Anthony the Abbot, St.   (praiseworthy, price -  less)   (251–356)   In   Christian   legend,   patron  saint of basket makers. Invoked against erysipelas  (or St. Anthony’s fire), an acute local inflamma -  tion of the skin. Feast, 17 January.  St. Anthony was among the first “desert  fathers”   of   the   Christian   Church.   The   list  includes   such   saints   as   Pachomius,   Simeon  Stylites, Hilarion, and Jerome. His life, writ -  ten in the fourth century by St. Athanasius,  bishop of Alexandria, is believed to be the first  example of an extended, or full-length, biogra -  phy of a saint. It set the style for the saints’ lives  that were written later. It tells of numerous  miracles and the proverbial combat with the  devil, which became a standard literary device  in writing about the lives of the saints.  Born in Alexandria, Anthony was an orphan.  He divided his inheritance with his sister, sold  his portion, and went to live among the hermits  in the desert. But as St. Athanasius writes, “the  devil, the envier and enemy of all good, could  not bear to see such a purpose in so young a  man” and sent many temptations to the saint.  The devil “would assume by night the form and  imitate the deportment of a woman, to tempt  Anthony.” The saint, however, overcame all of  the sensual assaults. The devil then assumed  the forms of various monsters, serpents, and  poisonous animals to torment Anthony. Again,  the saint overcame them.  After Anthony had lived for 75 years in the  desert, he had a vision of St. Paul the Hermit,  who had been living in penance for 90 years.  So Anthony set out across the desert. After  journeying several days and meeting on the  way a centaur and a satyr, he came at last to a  cave of rocks where St. Paul the Hermit lived  beside a stream and a palm tree. The two men  embraced. While they were talking, a raven  came, bringing a loaf of bread in its beak. St.  Paul said the raven had come every day for the  last 60 years, but that day the portion of bread  was doubled. St. Paul asked Anthony to fetch  a special cloak, for he was about to die and  wished to be buried in it. Anthony set out to get  the cloak (it was in a monastery some distance  away), but as he went he had a vision of St. Paul  ascending to heaven. When he returned to the  cave, he found St. Paul dead. Anthony had no  strength to dig a grave, but two lions came and  helped him. St. Anthony died 14 years later and  was buried secretly, according to his wish.  St. Anthony is portrayed as a very old man,  in his monk’s habit, often with a crutch and an  asperges or a bell to exorcise demons; a pig, the  ancient symbol of the Egyptian gods Osiris and  Set; and a Tau cross. Perhaps the most striking  paintings of the saint’s life were done by Math -  ias Grünewald in his Isenheim altarpiece. In  The Temptation of St. Anthony,   one of the panels  of the altarpiece, the saint is shown assaulted by  demons and with the rotted body of a man suf -  fering from St. Anthony’s fire. Another panel  of the altarpiece,   The Meeting of St. Anthony   4   Anthony the Abbot, St.  St. Anthony the Abbot

=== 페이지 102 ===
and St. Paul the Hermit,   portrays the saints  awaiting the arrival of the raven with the bread  in its beak. The Isenheim altarpiece inspired  Paul Hindemith’s opera   Mathis der Maler,   based  on the life of Mathias Grünewald. The music  from the opera was used by the composer in a  symphonic suite, made up of “The Concert of  the Angels,” “The Entombment,” and “The  Temptation of Saint Anthony.” Gustave Flau -  bert wrote   La Tentation de Sainte Antoine,   a  prose poem based on the legend of the saint.  See also:   athanasius, st.; centaur; jerome,  st.; osiris; satyr; set; simeon stylites  Antigone   (in place of a mother)   In Greek  mythology, daughter of Oedipus and his moth -  er, Jocasta (or Euryganeia); sister of Eteocles,  Esmene, and Polynices. Antigone accompanied  her blind father into exile in Attica, and after his  death, she returned to Thebes. In defiance of her  uncle Creon, she attempted to bury the body of  her brother Polynices, which Creon had cast out -  side the walls of the city because Polynices had  died trying to usurp his brother Eteocles’ throne.  Creon sentenced her to be entombed alive.  Sophocles, in his play   Antigone,   pictures her  as defiant in defending her ministrations to her  dead brother. Sophocles has her say, “And what  law of heaven have I transgressed?   .   .   . if these  things are pleasing to the gods [to be punished  for ministering to her dead brother], when I  have suffered my doom, I shall come to know  my sin; but if the sin is with my judges, I could  wish them no fuller measure of evil than they, on  their part do wrongfully to me.” Antigone then  hangs herself, while her betrothed, Haemon, the  son of Creon, stabs himself beside her body.  In a variant myth Antigone and Argeia, the  widow of Polynices, try to bury Polynices and  are seized by Creon’s guards. They are handed  over to Haemon for execution, but Haemon  hides Antigone in a shepherd’s hut, and the two  live together secretly for years. Antigone bears  a son who, when he grows up, engages in some  funeral games in Thebes and is recognized by a  birthmark peculiar to the family. He is revealed  to be the child of Antigone and Haemon, who  were   secretly   among   the   spectators.   Creon  orders them put to death. To escape Creon’s  vengeance, Haemon kills Antigone and himself.  In addition to Sophocles’ play, Antigone  has inspired numerous others, including those  of   Cocteau,   Anouilh,   and   Brecht.   Cocteau’s  play   (1922)   forms   the   basis   for   Honegger’s  opera   Antigone   (1927). Carlos Chávez’s Sym -  phony Number 1 (1933) is subtitled   Sinfonia  de Antigona   and is based on incidental music to  Cocteau’s version of Sophocles’ play. A German  translation of Sophocles is used by Carl Orff  for his “tragic play with music”   Antigono   (1948),  and the earlier opera   Antigono   (1756) by Gluck  uses an Italian translation of the Greek play.  See also:   jocasta; oedipus  Antilochus   (lying   in   ambush   against)   In  Greek mythology, a hero, the eldest son of  Nestor   and   Anaxiba   (or   Eurydice);   brother  of   Aretus,   Echephron,   Paeon,   Peisidice,  Antilochus    5  Antigone and Ismene   ( Emil Teschendorff )

=== 페이지 103 ===
Peisistratus,   Perseus,   Polycaste,   Stratius   and  Thrasymedes; possibly the father, not brother,  of Paeon. Antilochus accompanied his father  to the Trojan War and was distinguished for  his beauty and bravery. Homer, in   The Iliad,  calls him a favorite of Zeus and Poseidon. After  Patroclus he was closest to Achilles. Antilochus  was chosen by the Greeks to tell Achilles that  Patroclus had been slain by Hector. In later  myth,   when   Memnon   attacked   the   elderly  Nestor, Antilochus threw himself in the way and  was killed as a result. His death was avenged by  Achilles. The ashes of Antilochus, Patroclus, and  Achilles were laid together in the same grave. In  the underworld Odysseus saw the three heroes  pacing the asphodel meadow. Sacrifices were  offered to all three as semidivine beings.  See   also:   achilles; hector;   iliad, the;  nestor; patroclus; poseidon; zeus  Antinous   (hostile mind)   (c. 110   c.e. )   In  Roman   history   and   legend,   the   emperor  Hadrian’s male lover, drowned in the Nile.  Whether Antinous drowned himself or was  murdered is not known. Hadrian had his lover  deified and founded the city of Antinoöpolis  at the site of his death. Coins and statues of  Antinous as a handsome youth also were pro -  duced, one of the most beautiful statues being  the Farnese Antinous. Marguerite Yourcenar’s  novel   Memoirs of Hadrian   deals in part with  Hadrian’s love for Antinous.  Antiope   (with face confronting)   In Greek  mythology, the daughter of the Boetian river  god Asopus and Metope, or of Nycteus of  Thebes and Polyxo; mistress of Zeus, by whom  she was the mother of Amphion and Zethus.  When her father discovered that Zeus, in the  form of a satyr, had seduced Antiope, he threat -  ened to punish her. Antiope fled her father  and went to Epopeus of Sicyon, but he had  been killed by her uncle Lycus. The girl was  brought back and bore twin sons, Amphion and  Zethus. Nycteus ordered the boys exposed on a  mountain to die, but the babies were saved by a  shepherd. In the meantime Antiope was kept a  prisoner by Dirce, the wife of Lycus. Eventually  Antiope escaped, found her sons, and took her  revenge on Dirce by having her tied to the  tail of a wild bull, which dragged her until she  died. Antiope’s seduction by Zeus has for cen -  turies fascinated European artists, among them  Pinturicchio, Correggio, Titian, and Watteau.  Another   Antiope,   also   called   Melanippe,  was the sister of Hippolyte, queen of the Ama -  zons. She was given as a prize to Theseus and  bore him a son, Hippolytus; she was killed by  Theseus when he wanted to marry Phaedra. In  a variant account she was given to Pirithous.  See also:   amphion and zethus; satyr; zeus  Anu   (wealth, abundance)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, principal figure of pre-Christian Ireland.  She is the goddess of prosperity and abun -  dance who appears in Celtic folklore as Aine,  a   powerful   fairy,   queen   of   South   Munster.   6   Antinous  Jupiter and Antiope   ( after Corregio )

=== 페이지 104 ===
Two breast-shaped promotories located near  Killarney, called The Paps, were once called  the Paps of Anu.  Anu   (An, Ana, Anos, Dana, Danu, Nanu)  (lofty,   sky)   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Sumero-Akkadian), sky god, head of a triad  of gods made up of Anu, Enlil, and Ea. Anu’s  wife   was   Antum;   his   daughter   the   goddess  Bau. In the Babylonian creation epic poem  Enuma Elish,   Anu is the son of the primeval  god Anshar. In Hittite mythology Anu is called  Anus. In one myth he ousted his father, Alalus,  from the throne. He was in turn dethroned by  his son Kumarbi, who emasculated Anus by a  single bite of his penis. Kumarbi then spit out  the penis and three gods: Teshub, the storm  god; Tasmisus, the god’s attendant; and a river  god. Teshub in turn dethroned Kumarbi and  was father of the giant Ullikummi, who was  destroyed by the god Ea. Anu’s symbols are a  horned cap and star.  See also:   anshar; anu; bau; ea; enlil  Anubis   (Anpu)   In   Egyptian   mythology,  Greek name for the jackal-headed god of the  dead, called Anpu by the Egyptians. Although  the   jackal   was   known   to   prowl   the   ancient  cemeteries as a scavenger, the early Egyptians  turned him into a god who protected rather than  pillaged tombs. According to one myth, Anubis  was the son of the goddess Nephthys, who had  tricked her brother, the god Osiris, into adulter -  ously sleeping with her. Nephthys abandoned  Anubis at birth, and he was found and raised by  Osiris’s sister-wife, the goddess Isis. He accom -  panied Osiris on his conquest of the world, and  when Osiris was murdered and dismembered,  Anubis helped find his body and then embalmed  it so well it resisted the influences of time and  decay. Thus, it was said, the burial rites were  invented. In another story, the wicked god Seth,  disguised as a leopard, approached the body of  Osiris. Anubis seized him and branded him all  over with a hot iron. According to this myth,  this is how the leopard got its spots.  Subsequently, Anubis presided over funerals  and guided the dead through the underworld  into the kingdom of Osiris. In his function as  guide of the dead he assimilated the character  of the earlier Egyptian god Wepwawet (he who  opens the ways). Anubis’s cult continued during  Greek and Roman times. According to Plutarch,  the Egyptian jackal god was common to both the  celestial and infernal regions. This dual role was  reinforced in Roman times by Apuleius’s Latin  novel   The Golden Ass   (book 11), which describes  a procession of the goddess Isis in which Anubis  appears with his dog’s head and neck, a “mes -  senger between heaven and hell, displaying alter -  nately a face black as night and golden as day.”  See also:   isis; nephthys: osiris; set  Anubis     Anubis

=== 페이지 105 ===
Anunnaki   (Anunna, Anunnake, Ennuki)   In  Near Eastern mythology (Babylonian), gods or  spirits of the underworld, opposed to the Igigi,  the heavenly gods. In the ancient narrative  poem   Inanna’s Journey to the Underworld   the  Anunnaki are the seven judges of the under -  world. Sometimes, however, they are listed as  gods. In the   Enuma Elish,   the epic of creation,  they are the defeated rebel gods who build the  city of Babylon for the hero god Marduk.  Anuruddha   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist  legend, a disciple of the Buddha who was pres -  ent at his death. He is mentioned in the Pali  sacred writings. Physically blind, Anuruddha  was famous for his spiritual insight. He was  considered to be an example of unity.  Apauk-kyit Lok   In Burmese mythology, an  old man responsible for bringing death into  the world. Though old, Apauk-kyit Lok had  renewed his life nine times because there was  no death in the world. One day he went fishing  and saw an animal (either a monkey or squir -  rel) that had fallen asleep on a branch and was  floating in the river. He placed the animal in  a basket and covered it with his clothes; then  he disappeared. It was announced (though the  myth does not tell us how) that he was dead.  All of his neighbors came to see, but no one  dared remove the coverings. When the lord of  the sun heard what had happened, he sent some  messengers to investigate. They took the form  of dancers at the funeral. As they danced, they  removed the clothes that covered the basket,  revealing the fraud. Because of this the lord  of the sun caused Apaukkyit Lok to die, and  people have been dying ever since.  ape or monkey   Any mammal of the pri -  mates except humans, seen as a symbol of both  beneficence and evil. In ancient Egypt a dog-  headed ape assisted the god Thoth when the  soul of a deceased person was weighed on the  scales. Apes were embalmed when they died.  In Hindu mythology Hanuman, who helps the  hero Rama, is an ape or monkey god. In China  a whole cycle of monkey tales developed around  the adventures of a seventh-century Buddhist  monk who traveled from China to India with  his companion monkey and brought back sacred  books.  In contrast to the beneficent aspect of the  ape or monkey, the ancient Jewish rabbis said  that if one saw a monkey it was a sign of bad  luck. One Jewish tale says three classes of men  built the Tower of Babel, one of which turned  into apes as punishment from God. Some Mos -  lems still believe that the ancient Jews who lived  in Elath on the Red Sea were turned into mon -  keys or apes as a punishment from Allah for hav -  ing fished on the Sabbath. In medieval Christian  folklore the monkey was seen as shameless and  lustful. One bestiary of the 12th century says  that while the monkey’s whole physical being is  “disgraceful, yet their bottoms really are exces -  sively disgraceful and horrible.” The proverbial  saying “Hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil”  became associated with monkeys when travelers  to China and Japan saw three carved Koshin  monkeydeities on pedestals alongside the road,  with their ears, eyes, and mouths covered up.  See also:   hanuman; rama; tower of babel  Aphrodite   (foam-born)   In Greek mytholo -  gy, one of the 12 Olympian gods; a form of the  Great Mother goddess; the goddess of sensual  love; daughter of Zeus and Dione; or born of  the foam of the sea when the severed genitals  of Uranus were cast into the sea; still other  accounts say Eileithyia was her mother; iden -  tified by the Romans with Venus. Aphrodite  often appears as the wife of Hephaestus, the  smith god. Her erotic adventures with Ares  produced Eros, Anteros, and Harmonia, wife  of Cadmus, as well as Deimos and Phobos  (fear and alarm), attendants to their father,  Ares. By the mortal Anchises, Aphrodite was  the mother of Aeneas, the Trojan hero. A pas -  sage in the Homeric Hymns (not by the poet  Homer) describes Aphrodite’s encounter with  Anchises.   Zeus   himself   inspired   Aphrodite     Anunnaki

=== 페이지 106 ===
with the desire to lie in the arms of a mortal  man so that she might be practiced in the art  of “mingling goddesses in love with mortal  men.”  By Hermes she bore Hermaphroditus; by  Poseidon   she   bore   Eryx;   by   Dionysus   she  bore Priapus; and by Adonis a boy and a girl.  Aphrodite’s main adherents were in Paphos,  Amathus, and Idalion (all in Cyprus), in Cindus  in Dorian Asia Minor, in Corinth, on the island  of Cythera, and in Eryx in Sicily. As mother of  Harmonia, Aphrodite was the guardian deity  of Thebes. Among plants, the myrtle, the rose,  and the apple were sacred to her as goddess of  love; among animals the ram, he-goat, hare,  dove, and sparrow; as sea goddess, the swan,  mussels, and dolphin; as Urania, the tortoise.  The goddess appears in Homer, Hesiod, Ovid,  Vergil, Pausanias, and Euripides, among other  ancient authors.  The best-known statue of Aphrodite in the  ancient world was the Aphrodite of Cnidos by  Praxiteles, made about 350   b.c.e.   It is known  to us by Roman copies. Other works are the  Capitoline Venus in Rome and the Aphrodite  of Melos, called the Venus di Milo.  In   Western   literature   and   art   the   name  Aphrodite rarely appears; the more common  Roman form, Venus, is used. However, Pierre  Louy(s wrote a novel   Aphrodite,   which was  made into a five-act opera by Erlanger, pub -  lished in 1906.  There is a ballet   Aphrodite   (1930) by Niko -  lay Nabokov; a setting for women’s chorus and  orchestra of   Sappho’s Ode to Aphrodite   (1946) by  Albert Moeschinger; and a symphonic poem,  Aphrodite     Venus (Aphrodite) Wounded by  the Rose Thorns   (after Raphael)  Aphrodite (Venus)

=== 페이지 107 ===
Aphrodite   (1910), by the American composer  George Chadwick.  Aphrodite had many epithets, among them  Aphrodite Acrae (of the height), Doritis (boun -  tiful), Epistrophia (she who turns men to love),  Euploia (fair voyage), Limenia (of the harbor),  Pontia (of the deep sea), Area (warlike), Aphro -  dite Migonitis (uniter), Aphrodite Nymphaea  (bridal),   Aphrodite   Melaenis   (black),   Scotia  (dark one), Androphonos (man slayer), Epi -  tymbria (of the tombs), Pandemos (common  to all), Aphrodite Urania (heavenly), Pasiphae  (shining   one),   Asteria   (starry),   Apostrophia  (rejecter), and Aphrodite Morpho (shapely).  See   also:   anteros; ares; cadmus; great  goddess; hephaestus; hermaphroditus; hes -  iod; homer; ovid; pausanias; poseidon; pria -  pus; uranus; venus; zeus  Apis   In Egyptian mythology, Greek name  for the sacred bull, Hapi, associated with the  god Ptah of Memphis and regarded as his  earthly   manifestation   during   the   Ramesside  period (1320–1085   b.c.e. ). When an Apis bull  died, it was given great honors similar to those  for a dead pharaoh. The animal was buried  at Memphis in the Serapeum, a vast system  of catacombs cut into the limestone beneath  the desert sands. A committee of priests was  then appointed to search throughout Egypt for  another Apis bull to replace the dead one. The  replacement had to have 29 marks, the most  important being a rich black coat intermingled  with white patches and a triangular blaze on  the forehead. Once chosen, the new Apis was  enthroned in his own palace, or   sikos,   located to  the south of the temple of Ptah at Memphis.  Apis was also associated with Osiris, the major  god of the dead. In one myth Apis assisted Isis,  Osiris’s wife, in searching for the body of Osiris.  It was believed by the ancient Egyptians that  the bull’s fecundity and generative powers could  be transferred to the deceased, ensuring him or  her rebirth in the next life. In another myth, the  Apis was stabbed to death by the invading Per -  sian king Cambyses. After the bull was killed, its  corpse was thrown out of the temple, but no car -  rion eaters would approach the body except for  dogs. After devouring the body of the bull, dogs  lost their place of honor in Egyptian religion.  See also:   isis; osiris; ptah  Apis   (far off)   In Greek mythology, a son of  Phoroneus and the nymph Teledice, or of Apollo.  Apis was credited with driving monsters, plagues,  and snakes from Argos and was given the power  to heal illness by Apollo. St. Augustine, in com -  menting on the tale, believed Apis went to Egypt  and founded a colony of Greeks who later wor -  shipped Apis as the god Serapis.  See also:   apollo; augustine, st.; serapis  Apizteotl   (hungry god)   In Aztec mytholo -  gy, god of famine. When a sacrifice was offered  and human flesh eaten as part of the rite, those  who did not then wash in a fresh-running river  or spring were said to be “addicted to the god  of famine,” according to Fray Diego Durán in  his book   The Ancient Calendar,   which describes  Aztec feasts and festivals.  Apocatequil   (chief of the followers of the  moon)   In the mythology of the Huamachuco  Indians of Peru, god of night, twin brother of  the god Piguero (white bird), who represents  day. Apocatequil was the son of Guamansuri,  the first man to descend to earth. Guamansuri  came down and lived underground with a peo -  ple called Guachimines. He seduced their sister  and as a result was killed along with the girl.   0   Apis  Apis

=== 페이지 108 ===
Their offspring, born from two eggs, survived  and were the twins Apocatequil and Piguerao.  Apocatequil, with the aid of a creator god,  Atagudu, brought his mother back to life and  killed the other Guachimines. With a golden  spade he made an aperture in the earth through  which the race of Peruvians emerged and took  possession of the land. Apocatequil was called  Prince of Evil, though this title may stem from  his association with night.  Apoiaueue   In the mythology of the Tupi  Indians of Brazil, rain spirits who cause rain  when the land is dry.  Apollo   (destroyer,   apple   man)   In   Greek  mythology, one of the Olympian gods; god  of prophecy, healing, archery, music, youth,  plastic arts, science, and philosophy; son of  Leto and Zeus and brother of Artemis. Apollo  was also the protector of flocks and herds and  patron of the founding of cities and colonies.  The   Hymn to Apollo   (one of the Homeric  Hymns falsely ascribed to Homer) describes  how the island of Delos was raised up out of the  sea by Zeus for the special purpose of becom -  ing the birthplace of Apollo. Leto, Apollo’s  mother, says:  Delos, would that thou were minded to be  the seat of my Son, Phoebus Apollo, and  to let him build therein a rich temple! No  other God will touch thee, nor none will  honor thee, for I think thou art not to be  well seen in cattle or in sheep, in fruit or  grain, nor wilt thou grow plants unnum -  bered. But were thou to possess a temple  of Apollo the Fardarter; then would all  men bring thee hecatombs, gathering to  thee, and ever will thou have savor of sac -  rifice .   .   . from others’ hands, although thy  soil is poor. (Andrew Lang translation)  The island then speaks directly to Leto,  lamenting   its   bleak   and   barren   terrain   and  fearing that Apollo, who will be lord over  men and the grain-giver (earth), will disdain  Delos and cause a tidal wave to wipe out the  island. Delos therefore asks Leto to promise  that Apollo will build a temple on the island  so   that   it   would   be   forevermore   sacred   to  Apollo and thus protected from destruction.  Leto gives her oath: “Bear witness, Earth, and  the wide heaven above, and dropping water of  Styx—the greatest oath and the most dread  among   the   blessed   Gods—that   verily   here  shall ever be the fragrant altar and the portion  of Apollo, and thee will he honor above all.”  Apollo had numerous love affairs with both  men and women. Among the most famous  (and the offspring they produced) are the fol -  lowing: Acacallis (Amphithemis and Miletus);  Arsinoe (Erioris); Calliope (Orpheus); Calaeno  (Delphus); Chione (Philammon); Chrysorthe  (Coronus);   Coronis   or   Arsinoe   (Asclepius);  Cyrene (Autychus, Idom, and Aristaeus); Dry -  ope   (Amphissus);   Evadne   (Iamus);   Hecuba  (Troilus, possibly); Ocyrrhoe (Phasis); Parthe -  none (Lycomedes); Pythia (Dorus, Laodocus,  and Polypoetes); Procleia (Tenes); Psamathe  (Linus); Rhoeo (Anius); Stilbe (Centaurus and  Lapithus); Syllis (Zeuxippus); Thyia (Delphus);  Thyria   (Cycnus   and   Phylius).   Other   lovers  included Acantha, Bolina, Clymene, Daphne,  Issa, and Leucothoe. His favorite male lover  was Hyacinthus.  Numerous symbols were attached to Apollo.  The most common were the lyre and the bow,  symbols of his role as god of song and as the  farhitting archer. In his role as Pythian Apollo,  he is portrayed with the tripod, which was also  the favorite offering at his altars. Laurel trees  were planted around his temples since the leaf  of the laurel, the bay leaf, was used for expiation  of sins. Bay leaves were plaited into garlands of  victory at the Pythian Games. The palm tree  was also sacred to Apollo, for it was under the  palm tree that he was born in Delos.  Among animals sacred to Apollo were the  wolf, the dolphin, and the snow-white and  musical swans. The hawk, raven, crow, and  snake were symbols of Apollo as prophet.  In ancient art he was portrayed as a hand -  some youth. The Apollo Belvedere is a marble  Apollo   

=== 페이지 109 ===
copy of a Hellenistic bronze found in Rome  in the late 15th century; it is now in the Vati -  can Museum. The German artist Dürer based  his proportions for the “ideal male” on the  statue. Lord Byron wrote of it in   Childe Harold’s  Pilgrimage :  The God of life, and poesy, and light—The  Sun in human limbs array’d and brow All  radiant from his triumph in the fight.   .   .   .  Apollo appears in numerous paintings from  ancient times to the 19th century. During the  Middle Ages he was portrayed as a doctor or  scholar in contemporary medieval dress. Dur -  ing the Renaissance he appears as a handsome  youth. The Galérie d’Apollon in the Louvre  was painted by Le Brun for Louis XIV, whose  emblem was Apollo, le Roi Soleil.  In music and dance the best-known ballet  about Apollo is Stravinsky’s   Apollon Musagète  (1928), which is sometimes called simply   Apollo.  The ballet depicts Apollo, leader of the Muses,  preparing himself for his duties as a god. Sup -  ported by the Muses, he ascends Olympus to  drive his sun chariot across the heavens. There  are also more than 20 operas with Apollo as  the subject.  In English literature, Shelley’s “Hymn to  Apollo” reflects the poet’s view of the god:  I am the eye with which the Universe  Beholds itself and knows itself divine;  All harmony of instrument or verse,  All prophecy, all medicine are mine,  All light of art or nature—to my song  Victory and praise in their own right  belong.  Swinburne, in his poem “The Last Oracle,”  sees Apollo as the god who triumphs over the  Christian god.  Apollo had many epithets; among them, in  his role as god of healing, Alexicarus (averter of  evil) and Paean (healer); before setting out on  a journey, Apollo Embasius (Apollo of embar -  kations); in his role of removing a plague of  locusts from Attica, Apollo Parnopius (locust  god). In his role as seer Apollo was called  Loxias   (crooked,   ambiguous)   because   many  of his oracles were difficult to understand. As  god of music, poetry, and dance he was called  Musagetes (leader of the Muses). He was also  Phoebus (bright or pure god).  See   also:   artemis;   asclepius;   calliope;  delos;   hyacinthus;   leto;   olympian   gods;  styx; zeus  Apollodorus   (gift   of   Apollo)   (c.   140–115  b.c.e. )   Greek writer on mythology, history,  and grammar whose best-known work is the  Bibliotheca   (Library), which presents the deities  and myths of the Greeks. The extant works of  the book belong to the first or second century  of our era. James G. Frazer, who translated it   2   Apollodorus  Apollo Musagetes

=== 페이지 110 ===
into English, wrote, “It is a history of the world  as it was conceived by the Greeks.”  Apollonia, St.   (of Apollo)   (third century)  In Christian legend, patron of dentists and  their patients. Feast, 9 February.  The life of the saint is recorded in   The  Golden   Legend,   a   collection   of   saints’   lives  written in the 13th century by Jacobus de  Voragine. Apollonia was the daughter of rich  parents in Alexandria, Egypt. She was a virgin  “far advanced in years” and noted for her  “chastity,   purity,   piety   and   charity.”   All   of  these virtues, however, did not deter a pagan  mob from attacking her house because it was  a refuge for Christians. Apollonia was dragged  out, and the mob began “tearing out all her  teeth.” When that was done the saint was  burned. In a variant account of her life she was  killed with a sword.  In Christian art St. Apollonia is usually  shown with a pair of pincers, occasionally hold -  ing a tooth. One work, ascribed to Piero della  Francesca, portrays the saint holding her sym -  bol and looking quite determined if not angry.  See also:   golden legend, the  Apollyon   (destroyer)   In   the   Bible,   N.T.,  angel of the bottomless pit (Revelation 9:11).  Apollyon is a Greek translation of the Hebrew  word   Abaddon,   a poetic name for the land of  the dead in the Old Testament. Milton uses the  name in his   Paradise Regained : “In all her gates  Abaddon rues the bold attempt” (IV, 624). In  early Christian literature Apollyon is a name for  the devil. John Bunyan’s   Pilgrim’s Progress   calls  Apollyon an evil monster, “hideous to behold,”  with “scales like a fish,” “wings like a dragon,”  bear’s feet, and a lion’s mouth. Christian, the  hero of Bunyan’s work, battles Apollyon and  wounds the monster with his two-edged sword.  In later Christian writings Apollyon is often  identified as the angel of death.  Apophis   In   Egyptian   mythology,   Greek  name of the Egyptian Apep, or Aaapef, giant  serpent,   sometimes   a   crocodile,   and   night  demon. According to some ancient accounts,  Apophis was a form of Set, god of evil and  darkness. Each night Apophis battled with the  sun god Ra, whose spells and flames eventually  destroyed the serpent. This nightly combat  took place right before Ra’s ascension from  Duat, the underworld. In the ancient Egyptian  ritual text   Books of the Overthrowing of Apophis,  a rite was to be recited in the temple of the  sun god, cataloging in great detail the destruc -  tion that was to befall Apophis. The monster’s  statue   or   representation   was   to   be   speared  and gashed and every bone of his body cut  by knives. His head, legs, and tail were to be  scorched, singed, and roasted until the whole  was consumed by fire. The same fate awaited  Apophis’s monstrous helpers, Sebau and Nak,  as well as other shadows and offspring of night.  Another myth explained that Apophis sprang  from the saliva of the goddess Neith while  she was still living in the primeval waters. The  idea of the Apophis snake may derive from the  African python, which can open its mouth wide  enough to swallow a human.  See also:   duat; neith; ra; set  Apostle   (ambassador, messenger, envoy)   In  the Bible, N.T., title given to the 12 chief dis -  ciples of Jesus. The names given in the Gospels  and Acts vary, a fact often explained by the  custom of calling the same person by differ -  ent names; thus, Peter is also known as Simon  Peter or just Simon, and Bartholomew is some -  times called Nathanael. In general, the Twelve  Apostles are Simon, called Peter or Cephas  (rock); Andrew; James the Greater (or Elder  or Major); John; James the Less (or Younger  or Minor); Jude, also called Thaddaeus; Philip;  Bartholomew, also called Nathanael; Matthew,  surnamed Levi; Thomas, surnamed Didymus  or the Twin; Simon, the Cananean or Zealot;  Judas, surnamed Iscariot.  After the suicide of Judas, his place was  taken by Matthias, who was then called Apos -  tle. The term also was applied to St. Paul, who  Apostle    3

=== 페이지 111 ===
is the Apostle to the Gentiles, and to saints who  in legend are responsible for the conversion  of countries to Christianity. Thus, St. Patrick  is the Apostle to Ireland, and Sts. Cyril and  Methodius are Apostles to the Slavs.  The earliest paintings of the Twelve Apostles  are in the Roman catacombs of Domitilla (fourth  century). They are pictured seated in a semicir -  cle around Christ. In two Ravenna baptisteries  of the mid-fifth century and early sixth century  they are seen walking in procession around the  cupola of the building. Sometimes the Apostles  are portrayed as 12 lambs around Christ, the  Good Shepherd, as in St. Clement’s Church in  Rome (12th century). Sets of the 12 Apostles in  later Christian art were painted by Raphael and  engraved by Marc Antonio, Lucas van Leyden,  Parmigiano,   El   Greco,   and   Albrecht   Dürer.  However, not all of the Dürer set survive.  Edward   Elgar,   the   English   composer,  planned a sequence of oratorios dealing with  the calling of the apostles and their mission to  convert the world. The first part of the project  was called   The Apostles   and the second part,   The  Kingdom ; the third part was never finished.  See also:   bartholomew, st.; cyril and meth -  odius; james the greater, st.; james the lesser,  st.; judas iscariot; jude, st.; matthew, st.; pat -  rick, st.; peter, st.; simon, st.; thomas, st.  apple   A   fruit   tree   common   throughout  the temperate regions of the world; in world  mythology and folklore, a symbol of fertil -  ity and love. In Christian folklore the apple  is often identified as the fruit eaten by Adam  and Eve, though the actual fruit is not named  in Genesis. Thomas Otway, in his play   The  Orphan,   tells of how Eve “for an apple damned  mankind.” Often a golden apple is a prize; in  Greek mythology it was cast into a gathering  of the gods to cause dissension among them.  It was to be awarded to the goddess who won  the love of the youth Paris, and Aphrodite,  the goddess of sexual love, won it. In Greek  custom, tossing an apple to the object of one’s  desire was an invitation to sexual intercourse.  The apple or apple tree was sacred to Nemesis,  Artemis,   and   Apollo.   In   Aristophanes’   play  The Clouds   young men are told not to frequent  houses of dancing girls where “while they are  gaping at some cute strumpet, she might get  them involved by tossing an apple at them.”  In one of Lucian’s dialogues,   Conversations of  the Courtesans,   a courtesan complains that her  lover is not paying attention to her, but “throw -  ing apples” at another girl. In Norse mythol -  ogy the Aesir goddess Iduna is known for her  magic apples. In present-day custom boys and  girls dunk for apples at Halloween. Sometimes  they twirl them by the stem, with each twist  accompanied by a letter of the alphabet, which  indicates the first letter in the name of a future  mate. According to European folklore, apples  could induce pregnancy.  See also:   adam and eve; iduna  Apple of Discord   In Greek mythology, a  golden apple with the inscription “For the fair -  est.” Eris, the goddess of discord, threw it into  an assembly of the gods at the wedding of Thetis  and Peleus because she alone of the immortals  had not been invited. Aphrodite, Hera, and  Athena each claimed the apple. None of the  gods could decide who should have it, so Zeus  chose Paris of Troy to be the judge. Paris gave  the apple to Aphrodite, who then promised him  Helen, the most beautiful woman in the world.  Helen was already the wife of Menelaus, king  of Sparta, and his brother Agamemnon, king  of Argos. The seduction and removal of Helen  from Greece led directly to the Trojan War.  The event is frequently painted as   The Judgment  of Paris   and was popular with artists from the  Middle Ages to the 19th century.  See also:   agamemnon; aphrodite; helen  of troy; hera; menelaus; paris; peleus; the -  tis; zeus  Appomattox Apple Tree   In American his -  tory and folklore of the Civil War, tree under  which General Lee surrendered to General  Grant. According to legend, General Lee mis -   4   apple

=== 페이지 112 ===
took General Grant (who was far from neat) for  an orderly and handed him his sword to clean,  thus surrendering by mistake. Afterwards the  tree was quickly sliced up and stripped clean by  enterprising soldiers until only a gigantic hole  was left. The bark was enshrined as an heir -  loom and handed down from one generation to  the next. In actuality, nothing took place under  the Appomattox Apple Tree; the surrender was  made at the house of Major Wilmer McLean  on 9 April 1865.  apricot   A tree that bears fruit similar to the  peach. In European folklore the apricot was  believed to be a stimulant to sexual activity.  In   Shakespeare’s   Midsummer   Night’s   Dream  (3.1), when Titania fell in love with Bottom,  the weaver turned into an ass, and she ordered  her elves to feed him “apricocks.” In English  folklore, to dream of an apricot means good  luck, health, and pleasure. In Chinese belief,  however,   the   apricot   symbolizes   death   and  timidity.  Apsu   (Absu,   Apason,   Apsu-Rishtu)   (sweet  water   ocean)   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Babylonian), primordial god of fresh water,  husband of Tiamat, or chaos. In the Babylonian  epic of creation   Enuma Elish,   Apsu’s nature is  described:  There was a time when above the heaven  was not named Below, the earth bore no  name. Apsu was there from the first, the  source of both. And raging Tiamat the  mother of heaven and earth. But Apsu and  Tiamat were gathered together in a mass.  Apsu represents the male and Tiamat the  female principle of the primeval universe. In  the poem, however, Ea, the son of Apsu, cas -  trates his father and takes over his role as god  of fresh water. The worship of Ea as god of  fresh water was even found in the temple of  King Solomon, where water jars stood near the  great altar in the large court. The great basin in  the court was called Apsu.  See also:   ea; solomon  Aqhat   In Near Eastern mythology, a Canaanite  hero restored to life. Aqhat was the son of Daniel.  He had been given to his father as a gift by the  god El for the father’s prayers. Aqhat was perfect  in all things. One day Daniel gave Aqhat a bow  made by the divine smith of the gods. However,  the war goddess, Anath, coveted the boy and  made an offer to Aqhat. “Ask for everlasting life  and I will give it to you,” the goddess said to  Aqhat. “How can a mortal live forever?” Aqhat  asked. His question so angered the goddess that  she sent a hired killer, Yatpan, to murder Aqhat.  After his death Aqhat was restored to life by the  goddess, who felt remorse for her evil deed. This  ending, however, is only conjectural, because the  myth, found on tablets from the ancient city of  Ugarit in 1930 and 1931, is not complete.  See also:   anath; el  Aquarius   (water bearer)   The eleventh sign  of the Zodiac. Aquarius rises 20 January and  sets in February. Aquarius is the water-bearer  constellation said to represent Ganymede, the  young boy lover and cupbearer of the Greek  god Zeus. Other accounts say it represents  Deucalion or Cecrops.  See also:   deucalion; ganymede; zodiac  Ara   In   Armenian   mythology,   a   handsome  hero who died in battle and was restored to life.  An evil queen, Semiramis, heard how handsome  Ara was and sent messengers to propose that he  marry her. Ara rejected the offer because he  was married to Nvard, whom he deeply loved.  Semiramis, upset by the refusal, sent an army  against the hero, and he was killed in battle.  His lifeless body was taken to Semiramis and  placed in an upper chamber, where she prayed  to her gods to restore it to life.  Arachne   (spider)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughter   of   the   Lydian   cloth   dyer   Idmon  Arachne    5

=== 페이지 113 ===
and   Colophon.   Arachne   challenged   Athena  to a weaving match in which she wove a tap -  estry   portraying   the   erotic   activities   of   the  gods. Athena was offended by the work and  destroyed it. Arachne then hanged herself, and  Athena changed her into a spider. The myth is  told in detail in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6)  and by the English poet Spenser in   Muiopotmos.  A magnificent painting depicting the weaving  contest is   The Competition between Arachne and  Pallas Athene   or   The Spinners   by Velasquez.  See also:   athena; ovid; spider  Arae   (altars)   In Roman mythology, rocks in  the Mediterranean between Africa and Sardinia.  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1) tells how Aeneas lost  most of his fleet there. It is also the place where  Aeneas and the Africans ratified a treaty.  See also:   aeneid, the  Aralu   (Arallu,   Irkalla)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology, the Babylonian land of the dead,  ruled over by the goddess Ereshkigal and her  husband, the god Nergal. Aralu was pictured as  a vast place, dark and gloomy. Sometimes it was  called a land, sometimes a great house. It was  difficult to approach because it lay in the lowest  part of a mountain. Aralu was surrounded by  seven walls and guarded so that no living persons  could enter it. If they did, they would never come  out. A second name for the land of the dead in  Babylonian   mythology   was   Ekur   (the   bright  mountain house), a third was Shalu (to ask), and  a fourth was Ganzir, a name whose meaning  is uncertain. In numerous incantations used in  cultic rites the names of the dead were avoided  and the place was often described as “land of no  return,” “dark dwelling,” or “great city.”  See also:   ereshkigal; nergal  Aram   In Armenian folklore, hero who con -  quered   Barshamina,   the   giant.   Barshamina  ruled a great land, which Aram conquered;  Aram made himself king and forced the people  to learn Armenian. Some scholars believe that  Aram was originally an Armenian war god,  Aremenius; and the giant Barshamina was none  other than the Syrian god Ba’al Shamin, the lord  of heaven, imported into Armenian mythology  and demoted into a giant in later legend.  See also:   baal  Aramazd   In Armenian mythology, supreme  god, derived in part from the Persian good god,  Ahura Mazda. Aramazd was the giver of pros -  perity, abundance, and fatness to the land. He  made the fields fertile and may therefore have  been a rain god. He was the father of the gods  Anahita, Nane, and Mihr.  See also:   ahura; anahita; mazda; mihr;  nane  Arcadia   (bear-country)   In Greek mythology,  a mountainous region in the Peloponnesus, the  central district of Greece, associated with pasto -  ral life in much poetry and art; named after Arcas,  king of the Arcadians. Ancient authors such as  Theocritus and Vergil used Arcadia to portray  an ideal state, and it has been used by poets and  artists ever since. One of the most popular works  was   Arcadia   (1481) by the Italian Sannazaro, a  collection of poetic eclogues connected by prose  passages. Other works in literature are Spenser’s  Shepherd’s Calendar   and Sir Philip Sidney’s prose  romance   Arcadia.   The use of Arcadia to denote  a pastoral state that never existed except among  the poets was attacked by the English poet  William Cowper in his poem “Hope”:  The poor, inured to drudgery and distress,  Act without air, think little, and feel less,  And no where, but in feign’d Arcadian  scenes  Taste happiness, or know what pleasure  means.  The saying   Et in Arcadia ego   (even in Arca -  dia I am found) refers to death and was used by  Poussin as the title for a painting of Arcadian  shepherds looking at a skull and tomb. Often,  however, the lines are mistranslated as “I too  have lived in Arcadia.”   6   Arae

=== 페이지 114 ===
Arcas   (bear)   In   Greek   mythology,   a   cul -  ture   hero,   king   of   Arcadia;   a   son   of   Zeus  and Callisto; married the Dryad Erato; father  of   Azan,   Apheidas,   Elatus,   Hyperippe,   and  the   illegitimate   Autolaus.   Arcas   taught   the  Arcadians agriculture and the art of spinning  wool. He was turned into a star, the Little Bear  (Arcturus), located behind his mother, Callisto,  who was turned into the Great Bear by Zeus.  Arcas is cited in Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (3),  and Pausanias’s   Description of Greece.  See also:   apollodorus; arcadia; callisto;  dryads; zeus  archangels   In Jewish, Christian, and Islamic  mythology, order of angels.  In the Old Testament Apocrypha Book of  Tobit (12:15) the archangel Raphael says he is  “one of the seven holy angels, which present the  prayers of the saints, and which go in and out  before the glory of the Holy One.” Influenced  by this verse, the author of the Book of Revela -  tion (8:2) has seven angels who stand before  God. However, the names of the seven are not  given in either text. Judaeo-Christian tradi -  tion has supplied a list: Michael (who is like  unto God), Raphael (God has healed), Gabriel  (God is my strength), Uriel (the light of God),  Chamuel (he who seeks God), Zophiel (the  beauty of God), and Zadkiel (the righteousness  of God). There are numerous variant spellings  of the names, often making it difficult to know  which angel is spoken of in a particular text.  The first three on the list, however, are most  often represented in Western medieval art and  literature.  Islam does not have seven archangels but  four. They are Michael, Gabriel, Azazel (the  angel of death), and Israfel (the angel who  will sound the trumpet on the Last Day when  everyone will be judged by Allah). Michael and  Gabriel are named directly in the Koran; the  other two names are not given but are supplied  by Islamic tradition.  See also:   azazel; bible (revelation); cham -  uel; gabriel; israfel; koran, the; michael;  raphael; uriel; zadkiel; zophiel  archetype   A term whose meaning is “origi -  nal form,” but which has been used in reference  to historical, ritual, or psychological concepts.  For folklorists who adhere to the historic-geo -  graphic method of studying narratives,   arche -  type   is used to refer to an original text of a tale  type that was created at a specific time and a  specific place (monogenesis). For mythic texts,  the archetype points to real people as the basis  for the myth and is based on the thinking of the  Macedonian philosopher Euhemerus. For him,  gods and goddesses were real historical figures  about whom stories were told, with excesses  and exaggerations being added through time.  Literary critics, who have often looked to Carl  Jung   for   a   psychological   understanding   of  archetype, see dreams and myths as archetypes  of the human imagination that derive from a  collective unconscious that is inherited by all  humans, much as genetic traits.  See also:   euhemerus; historic-geographic  method; monogenesis and polygenesis; tale  type  Ardhananari   In Hindu mythology, epithet  of the god Shiva, meaning half man. Often it  signifies Shiva as an androgyne or as a compos -  ite god made up of his male element, Shiva, and  his female form, Parvati. This androgynous  figure is depicted as a female on the left and a  male on the right side.  See also:   shiva  Ares   (male-warrior)   In   Greek   mythology,  one of the 12 Olympian gods, the war god, son  of Zeus and Hera; lover of Aphrodite; father of  Deimos and Phobos (or Pavor) (gods of tumult  and terror), Enyo (goddess of battle), and Eris  (goddess of discord); equated by the Romans  with their god Mars.  Ares was “the blood-stained bane of mor -  tals,” according to Homer in   The Iliad   (book 5).  Ares   

=== 페이지 115 ===
He was hated by the other gods and even dis -  liked by his parents, Zeus and Hera, as demon -  strated in a passage from Homer’s   Iliad   (book 5)  in which the god is wounded. Zeus says to Ares,  “You are to me the most hateful of the gods who  dwell upon Olympus. For dear to you always  are strife and wars and battles. You have your  mother   Hera’s   intolerable,   unyielding   spirit.  Hardly can I restrain her with words. There -  fore I think that it is at her prompting that you  suffer thus. But still I will not long endure that  you suffer pain, for you are my offspring and  your mother bore you to me. If you had been  born so insolent of any other of the gods, long  ago would you have been lower than the sons of  heaven” (translated by Chase and Perry).  The   Hymn to Ares,   one of the Homeric  Hymns (works ascribed to Homer but not by  the poet), gives a contrasting image of the god  and portrays Ares as a benign protector as well  as a patron of bravery:  .   .   .   O   defence   of   Olympus,   father   of  warlike   Victory,   ally   of   Themis,   stern  governor   of   the   rebellious,   leader   of  righteous men, sceptred King of manli -  ness.   .   .   . helper of men, giver of daunt -  less youth! Shed down a kindly ray from  above upon my life, and strength of war,  that I may be able to drive away bitter  cowardice from my head and crush down  the   deceitful   impulses   of   my   soul.   .   .   .  O blessed one, give you me boldness to  abide within the harmless laws of peace,  avoiding strife and hatred and the violent  fiends of death. (Translated by Hugh G.  Evelyn-White)  Among his many loves (and the offspring  produced)   were   Aerope   (Aeropus);   Agrau -  los (Alcippe); Althaea (Meleager); Astynome  (Calydon);   Astyoche   (Ascalaphus   and   Ial -  menus), Atlanta (Parthenopapaeus); Asterope  or   Harpina   (Oenomaus);   Chryse   or   Dotis  (Phlegyas);   Cyrene   or   Asterie   (Diomedes);  Demonice or Alcippe (Evenus, Molus, Oeneus,  Pylus, and Thestius); Otrera (Antiope, Hip -  polyte, and Penthesilea); Pelopia or Pyrene  (Cycnus); and Protogeneia (Oxylus).  Ares was worshipped by the Spartans, who  sacrificed dogs to him. The vulture also was  sacred to Ares. He had sanctuaries under the  name of Enyalius in several places. The Spartans  also called him Theritas (wild beast). Among his  other names were Gradivus (leader of armies)  and Ares Gynaecotheonas (he who entertains  women), the latter because, according to one  myth, the women of Tegea armed themselves  and drove out the Spartans who had attacked  them. The god was also called Aphneius (abun -  dant), referring to the myth of Aerope, a daugh -  ter of Cepheus. Ares loved her, but she died  giving birth to a child, who clung to her breast  even after she was dead. Through the power of  Ares, the child still sucked great amounts of milk  from its mother’s breasts. The Areopagus (hill  of Mars), northwest of the Acropolis in ancient  Athens, was the meeting place for elders, who  tried treason and homicide cases. Ares was the  first to be tried by the Areopagitae, the court,  for the murder of Halirrhotius, son of Poseidon,  who had raped Ares’ daughter Alcippe. Orestes  was also tried at this court. The Areopagus is the  “Mars Hill” cited in Acts (17:22) from which St.  Paul tried to convince the Athenians of the mer -  its of Christianity over their pagan gods.  Ares appears in Homer’s   Iliad   and   Odys -  sey   (he sides with the Trojans), Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book   8),   Hesiod’s   Theogony,   the   Homeric     Ares  Diomedes Casting His Spear against Ares  (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 116 ===
Hymns, and Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library),  among other works.  In ancient works of art Ares is portrayed as  a young and handsome man. One of the best -  known statues of him portrays him seated with  his son Eros at his feet.  See   also:   aerope; aphrodite; halirrho -  tius; hesiod;   iliad, the;   mars;   odyssey, the;  olympian gods; themis  Arethusa   (the waterer?)   The name of sev -  eral springs, notably one in Ithaca and one  in Syracuse. In Greek mythology, the latter  was a nymph of Elis (or Achaed); daughter of  Oceanus. Arethusa was a follower of Artemis,  who turned her into a fountain. One day she  bathed in the stream of the river god Alpheus,  who fell in love with her. She fled his sexual  advances and was transformed by Artemis into  a spring on the island of Ortygia near Syracuse.  But   Alpheus,   following   under   the   sea,   was  united with the fountain. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 5) and Shelley’s poem “Arethusa” (1824),  as well as   Arethusa,   a “Symphonic Myth” by  Alex Voormolen, all deal with the myth. The  Fontana Arethusa still exists today, though it is  now a saltwater stream.  See also:   artemis; nymphs; oceanus; ovid  Aretos   In Greek mythology, a hero; the name  of a son of Nestor mentioned in Homer’s   Odyssey  (book 3), as well as the name of a son of Priam  killed by Automedon, according to Homer’s  Iliad   (book 17). Aretos was also the name of a  warrior who used as his weapon an iron club. He  was slain by Lycurgus, king of Arcadia, accord -  ing to Pausanias’s   Description of Greece.  See also:   automedon;   odyssey, the;   priam  Arge   (brightness)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  female hunter who was transformed into a stag  by Apollo. Arge is also the name of one of the  Cyclopes according to Hesiod’s   Work and Days,  as well as the name of a daughter of Heracles  by Thespius and of a nymph daughter of Zeus  and Hera, sister of Ares, Elleithyia, Hebe, Eris,  and Hephaestus, according to Apollodorus’s  Bibliotheca   (Library).  See also:   apollo; apollodorus; ares; hep -  haestua; hera; hesiod; thespius; zeus  Argeia   (brilliant)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughter of Adrastus and Amphithea; sister  of Aegialeia, Aegialeus, Deipyle, Cyanippus,  and   Hippodameia;   mother   of   Thersander  and   another   Adrastus.   Argeia   was   the   wife  of   Polynices,   whom   she   loved   very   dearly.  Together   with   Antigone,   she   tried   to   bury  Polynices’ body, and Creon had her killed for  the deed. Theseus, in turn, killed Creon. The  name Argeia is also given to the mother of  Argos, who built the first ship,   Argo,   for the  hero Jason.  See also:   adrastus; antigone; jason  Argives   The ancient inhabitants of Argos  and   Argolis.   Homer   and   other   early   poets  called   the   people   of   Greece   by   local   tribe  names, including Argives. Homer’s   Iliad   does  not use the term   Greek,   but   Argives, Achaeans,  or   Danaans.   Later Greek writings use   Hellenes  (descendants of Hellen), while Romans used  Greek   to cover all tribes.  See also:   danaans; homer;   iliad, the  Argo   (bright)   In Greek mythology, the 50-  oared ship in which the Argonauts sailed with  Jason to Colchis to capture the Golden Fleece.  The   Argo   was built by Argus, son of Argeia.  Its   prow   contained   magic   wood,   given   by  Athena, from the sacred talking oak of Dodona.  While at sea, sometimes the beam would speak  oracles to the crew. The   Argo,   according to  some accounts, was the first ship. It appears  in Apollonius Rhodius’s epic   Argonautica   and  William Morris’s   Life and Death of Jason.  See   also:   arbeia;   argonauts;   argus;  athena; dodona; golden fleece; jason  Argonauts   In Greek mythology, the name  given to Jason and his 55 companions who sailed  the   Argo   to capture the Golden Fleece. The list  Argonauts   

=== 페이지 117 ===
of heroes varies from source to source. The  Argonauts according to Apollonius Rhodius’s  epic poem   Argonautica   are  Acastus, son of King  Pelias of Iolcus  Admetus, prince of Pherae, son of Pheres  Aethalides, son of Hermes  Amphidamas, son of Alcus, from Arcadia  Amphion, son of Hyperasius, from Pellene  Ancaeus, son of Lycurgus, from Arcadia  Ancacus, a steersman, son of Poseidon, from  Tegea  Areus, a son of Bias  Argus, builder of the   Argo  Asterion, son of Cometes  Asterius, brother of Amphion  Augeas, son of Helius, from Elis  Butes, son of Teleon, from Athens  Canthus, son of Canethus, from Euboea  Calais, winged son of Boreas and Orithyia  Castor, one of the Dioscuri, from Sparta  Cepheus, son of Aleus, from Arcadia  Clytius, son of Eurytus, from Oechalia  Coronus, son of Caenus, a Lapith from Thessaly  Echion, herald of the Argonauts, son of Hermes  Erginus, son of Poseidon, from Orchomenus  Eribotes, son of Teleon, from Athens  Erytus, brother of Echion, from Alope  Euphemus, son of Poseidon, from Taenarus  Eurydamas, son of Ctimenus, a Dolopian  Eurytion, son of Irus  Heracles, son of Zeus, from Tiryns  Hylas, squire of Heracles  Idas, son of Aphareus, from Arene  Idmon, a seer, son of Apollo, from Argos  Iphiclus, son of Thestius, from Aetolia  Iphiclus, son of Phylacus, from Phylace  Iphitus, brother of Clytius  Iphitus, son of Naubolus, from Phocis  Jason, son of Aeson, captain of the expedition  Laocoön, uncle of Meleager  Leodocus, brother of Areus  Lynceus, brother of Idas  Meleager, son of Oeneus, from Calydon  Menoetius, son of Actor  Mopsus, son of Ampycus, a Lapith  Nauplius, son of Clytonaeus, from Argos  Oileus, father of Ajax the Lesser, from locris  Orpheus, the musician and poet, from Thrace  Palaemonius, lame son of Hephaestus, from  Actolia  Peleus, father of Achilles, from Phthia  Periclymenus, son of Nestor, from Pylus  Phalerus, archer from Athens  Phlias, from Araethyrea  Polydeuces, one of the Dioscuri, from Sparta  Polyphemus, son of Elatus, from Arcadia  Tacnarus, son of Poseidon  Talaus, brother of Areus  Telamon, father of Great Ajax, from Salamis  Tiphys, the steersman, son of Hagnias, from  Boeotia  Zetes, winged brother of Calais  Others   sometimes   listed   as   Argonauts  include  Actor, son of Deion, from Phocis  Amphiaraus, the seer, from Argos  Ascalaphus, son of Ares, from Orchomenus  Atalanta, the virgin huntress, from Calydon  Caeneus, the Lapith, father of Coronus  Euryalus, son of Mecisteus, one of the Epigoni  Iphitus, from Mycenae  Laertes, son of Acrisius, from Argos  Melampus, son of Poseidon, from Pylos   00   Argonauts  The building of the   Argo

=== 페이지 118 ===
Peneleus, son of Hippalcimus, from Boeotia  Phanus, son of Dionysus, from Crete  Poeas, father of Philoctetes  Staphylus, brother of Phanus.  The myth of the Argonauts, which predates  Homer, has inspired numerous ancient and  modern works in addition to the   Argonautica,  including Euripides’ play   Medea   and Pindar’s  Pythian Ode.   Chaucer tells the tale in his   Leg -  end of Good Women.   The longest reworking  of the myth is found in William Morris’s   Life  and Death of Jason   (1867), a poem of 7,500  lines. Robert Graves wrote a novel on the  theme   called   Heracles,   My   Shipmate   (1944).  Other versions of the tale include Hawthorne’s  Tanglewood Tales   (1851) and   The Heroes   (1855)  by Charles Kingsley; both were written for  children and reflect more of the 19th century  than of ancient Greece.  See also:   acastus;   argo ; boreas; chaucer;  dioscuri; golden fleece; homer; jason  Argus   (bright)   In   Greek   mythology,   the  name of the 100-eyed giant who guarded Io on  the orders of Hera. The myth is told by Ovid  in the   Metamorphoses   (book 1). Argus is also  the name of Odysseus’s dog in Homer’s   Odyssey  (book 17), as well as the name of the builder  of the ship   Argo   used by Jason to capture the  Golden Fleece. Others in Greek mythology  with the same name are a king of Argos who  reigned for 70 years; a son of Agenor; a son of  Zeus and Niobe (Zeus’s first child by a mortal);  one of the dogs of Actaeon; a son of Jason  and Medea; and a grandson of Aeëtes, king of  Colchis.  See also:   hera; io; jason; medea; niobe;  ovid; zeus  arhat   (worth)   In Theravada Buddhism, one  who has reached the end of the Eightfold Path.  Their number varies in Buddhist works from  16 to 500. Often they are portrayed as digni -  fied, bald, and with a certain severity, seated  along the eastern and western walls of the  principal hall in a Buddhist temple. An arhat  is often seen in contrast to the Bodhisattva of  Mahayan Buddhism, in which the Enlightened  One delays entrance into Nirvana to teach the  way to others. In China the term   lohan   is used;  in Japan,   rakan.   In Pali the term is Romanized  as   arahat.  See also:   bodhisattva; mahayana; nirvana  Ariadne   (very   pure,   guiltless)   In   Greek  mythology, daughter of Minos and Pasiphae; sis -  ter of Acacallis, Andiogeus, Catreus, Deucalion,  Euryale,   Glaucus,   Lycastus,   Phaedra,   and  Xenodice. Ariadne fell in love with Theseus  when he came to Crete to kill the Minotaur.  She gave him yarn to mark his path into the  labyrinth so that he could find his way back  after slaying the Minotaur. Ariadne then eloped  with Theseus. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11) says  Ariadne was killed by the goddess Artemis in  the Island of Dia, near Crete, at the request  of Dionysus. Later, post-Homeric myth shifts  the scene to the Island of Naxos, where the  slumbering Ariadne is deserted by Theseus.  Waking up, she is on the brink of despair, when  Dionysus comes and makes her his wife. Zeus  grants her immortality and sets her bridal gift,  a crown, among the stars.  Ariadne was accorded godlike honors. At  Naxos her festivals portrayed her life. At Athens  in the autumn a festival in honor of Dionysus  Ariadne    0   Ariadne

=== 페이지 119 ===
and Ariadne was celebrated. In Italy Dionysus  was identified with the ancient Italian wine  god Liber, and Ariadne with the wine goddess  Libera.  Ariadne’s abandonment by Theseus inspired  a poem by the Roman poet Catullus. She is also  the subject of one of Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book  8) and   Heroides,   and appears in Chaucer’s   Legend  of Good Women.   Tintoretto, Raphael, Titian, and  Poussin all deal with the subject in paintings.  Richard Strauss’s opera   Ariadne auf Naxos   (1912)  has   a   libretto   by   Hugo   von   Hofmannsthal.  An earlier opera,   Ariadne auf Naxos   by Georg  Benda, was much admired by Mozart.  See   also:   artemis; chaucer; deucalion;  dionysus; minotaur;   odyssey, the;   ovid; pha -  edra; theseus; zeus  Arianrhod   (silver circle)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, a goddess married to the British king  and magician Gwydion. Their sons were Lleu  Llaw Gyffes, the culture hero, and the sea god  Dylan, who at birth plunged into the sea.  See   also:   caswallawn; dylan; gwydion;  lleu llaw gyffes  Ariel   (lion of God or hearth of God)   In the  Bible, O.T., symbolic name for Jerusalem in  Isaiah (29:1–2). In occult medieval literature,  the name of a water spirit under the leadership  of the archangel Michael.  Ariel figures rather prominently in English  literature. In   The Tempest   Shakespeare lists Ariel  as an “airy spirit,” who is rescued by Pros -  pero from imprisonment in a cloven pine and  becomes a servant of the magician. At Prospero’s  bidding he causes the storm and shipwreck. He  lures Ferdinand to a meeting with Miranda,  singing “Come unto these yellow sands.” He  also awakens Gonzalo in time to frustrate the  murder of the king. At the end of the play, after  Ariel has provided a calm sea and a good wind  for a voyage to Milan, Prospero frees the spirit.  Whereas   Shakespeare’s   Ariel   is   airy   and  mischievous, Milton’s Ariel in   Paradise Lost   is  part of the “atheist crew” of fallen angels. The  mischievous Ariel returns in Pope’s brilliant  poem   The Rape of the Lock,   in which Ariel is a  sylph assigned to protect Belinda, the heroine,  as long as she does not let love for a man enter  her heart. Ariel is chief of the “light Militia  of the lower Sky,” a place inhabited by other  sylphs. He rules over other fairies like an epic  hero and takes the most dangerous position,  guarding   Belinda’s   lapdog.   Although   he   is  brave, loyal, and heroic, he cannot help Belinda  once she falls in love.  Percy Bysshe Shelley, the English romantic  poet, often called himself Ariel. One biography  of Shelley, written by André Maurois, is titled  Ariel.   In music, Ariel is depicted in Tchai -  kovsky’s symphonic poem   The Tempest   and in  Sibelius’s   incidental   music   for   Shakespeare’s  The Tempest.  See also:   michael  Arimaspi   In   Greek   mythology,   a   fantas -  tic one-eyed people of Scythia, according to  Herodotus’s   History   (book 4). They were said  to be constantly fighting with griffins for the  gold the griffins guarded. Milton in   Paradise  Lost   (book 2.943-5) cites them.  See also:   griffin  Arinna   (Arinniti)   In Near Eastern mythol -  ogy   (Hittite),   sun   goddess   and   goddess   of  fecundity. Arinna was the most important deity  in the Hittite pantheon, being addressed in  masculine terms as “sun god of heaven.” Her  symbols were the lion and the dove.  Arioch   (fierce lion)   In the Bible, O.T., name  given in the Book of Daniel (2:14) for one of  the fallen angels; also used in Milton’s   Paradise  Lost   for a fallen angel.  Aristaeus   (the best)   In Greek mythology,  god of beekeeping and protector of fruit trees;  a son of Apollo and a Lapith girl, Cyrene; half  brother of Orpheus. Though he was married  to Autonoe, daughter of Cadmus, he fell in  love with his sister- in-law Eurydice and pur -   02   Arianrhod

=== 페이지 120 ===
sued her. When he accidentally caused her  death by snakebite, the gods punished him  by killing his bees. His mother advised him  to sacrifice cattle to placate the gods. Nine  days after the sacrifice he found swarms of  bees in the cattle carcasses. He disappeared  near Mount Haemus. Vergil’s   Fourth Georgic  tells the tale, and it is his version of Eurydice’s  death that Niccolo dell’Abbate followed in his  painting   The Story of Aristaeus.  See   also:   apollo;   autonoe;   cadmus;  eurydice; orpheus  Arjuna   (white, bright, silvery)   In the Hindu  epic poem   The Mahabharata,   a hero, third of  the five Pandu princes/brothers. The diverse  accounts of his life suggest that he is a com -  posite   figure   representing   several   legendary  heroes, or that the accounts are regional and  relate to a single figure.  Arjuna’s father was the storm god, Indra,  and he was taught the use of arms by Drona.  His skill was so great that he won the girl  Draupadi at her   svayamvara   (self-choice), a  contest of arms at which a girl chose her  husband. However, Arjuna’s mother, Kunti,  not knowing Arjuna had just acquired a bride,  commanded him to share his acquisition with  his   brothers.   Thus,   Draupadi   became   the  joint wife of all five Pandu brothers. They  all agreed that when one of them was making  love with Draupadi no other brother was to  enter the room. One day, Arjuna, looking for  some weapons, walked into the room when  his brother Yudhi-shthira and Draupadi were  making love. As a punishment Arjuna went  into exile. (At the same time, however, Arjuna  kept an entire harem.)  While in exile Arjuna experienced many  adventures, among which was winning as a  gift from the fire god, Agni, the magic bow,  Gandiva. Arjuna’s exile over, he returned home,  only to find that his brother Yudhi-shthira  had lost the kingdom in a gambling match.  As a result all five Pandu brothers had to go  into exile for 13 years. At one time during the  long exile Arjuna went on a pilgrimage to the  Himalayas to ask the gods to give him celestial  weapons to use against the enemy, the Kaura -  vas. At another time Arjuna took a journey to  the heaven of his father, Indra.  In   the   great   battle   with   the   Kauravas,  Arjuna obtained the help of Krishna (an incar -  nation of the god Vishnu), who acted as his  charioteer. Their great dialogue, which has  been inserted into   The Mahabharata,   is called  the Bhagavad-Gita.  On the 10th day of the great battle Arjuna  wounded the hero Bhishma; on the 12th day  he defeated Susarman and his four brothers; on  the 14th day he killed Jayadratha; on the 17th,  he argued with his brother Yudhi-shthira and  would have killed him had it not been for the  interference of Krishna, who stopped the fight.  Finally, Arjuna and the other Pandavas were  victorious over the Kauravas.  Numerous other adventures as well as love  affairs of Arjuna are narrated in the epic. In the  end he retired to the Himalayas.  In the epic Arjuna is called Aindri because  his father was Indra; also Bibhatsu (supercil -  ious); Dhananjaya (wealth-winning); Gudakesa  (tufted hair); Jishu (victorious); Kapidhvaja (ape  standard) because his flag bore an ape as a sym -  bol; Kiritin (diademed); Paka-sasana (punisher  of the demon Paka); Partha (descent of Pritha);  Phalguna because he was born in the month  of Phalguna; Savya-sachin (ambidextrous); and  Sveta-vahana (white-vehicled).  See also:   agni; bhagavad-gita; draupadi;  drona; indra; krishna;   mahabharata, the;  vishnu  Ark of the Covenant or Testimony   In  the Bible, O.T. (Exod. 25:10–22), a chest some  3 feet, 9 inches long, 27 inches broad and deep,  made of acacia wood overlaid with gold, and  fitted with staves and rings for handles. It was  covered with a golden lid called the Mercy  Seat, which bore the figures of two cherubim,  griffinlike beings derived from Near Eastern  mythology. The Ark was a fetish and may  Ark of the Covenant or Testimony    03

=== 페이지 121 ===
have   originally   contained   a   live   snake   god,  then an image of a snake, and later the Ten  Commandments. It was placed in the Holy of  Holies in the temple but later disappeared. It  may have been carried away or destroyed as  an idol. In medieval Christian symbolism the  Ark symbolized the Virgin Mary, who bore, or  sheltered, Christ. Many medieval statues of the  Virgin would open to show the infant Christ  or the crucified Christ inside. The Hollywood  movie   Raiders of the Lost Ark   (1981) tells of an  attempt to find the ark.  See also:   cherubim; griffin; virgin mary  Armageddon   (the   mount   or   city   of  Megiddo)   In the Bible, N.T., name given in  the Book of Revelation (16:16) to the site of the  last battle between Good and Evil before the  Day of Judgment. The word is now used for  any great battle.  See also:   bible (revelation)  Armida   In the Charlemagne cycle in medieval  legend, a beautiful sorceress. In Torquato Tasso’s  poem   Jerusalem Delivered   Rinaldo falls in love  with Armida and wastes his time in voluptuous  pleasure. After his escape from her, Armida fol -  lowed him and, unable to lure him back, set fire  to her palace. She then rushed into the midst of  a battle and was killed. When she made love, she  wore an enchanted girdle, which “in price and  beauty” surpassed all of her other ornaments.  In 1806, when Frederick William of Prussia  declared war on Napoleon, his young queen rode  about in military costume to arouse popular sup -  port. When Napoleon was told, he said, “She is  Armida, in her distraction setting fire to her own  palace.” Armida is the central character of Gluck’s  opera   Armide,   Haydn’s opera   Armida,   Rossini’s  opera   Armida,   and Dvorák’s last opera,   Armida.  She appears in Anthony Van Dyck’s   Rinaldo and  Armida,   one of his most erotic paintings.  See also:   charlemagne; rinaldo  Armilus   In Jewish legend, false Messiah, off -  spring of Satan and a beautiful marble statue of  a woman in Rome. Armilus will claim to be the  Messiah, gaining some followers, but he will be  defeated by God or the true Davidic Messiah. In  one medieval text he is described as bald, leprous,  deaf in one ear, and maimed in his right arm.  Army of the Dead   In American folklore  of the Civil War, ghosts of Confederate sol -  diers who still march through certain streets  of Charleston, South Carolina. It was believed  they were the souls of those dead who could  not find rest. This folk belief was fostered by  the Ku Klux Klan to frighten blacks, who were  told that the white-hooded figures were the  spirits of the dead.  See also:   ghost riders  Arne   (ewe   lamb)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughter   of   Aeolus,   king   of   Magnesia   in  Thessaly, and Thea, daughter of Chiron the  centaur. Poseidon transformed himself into a  bull in order to have sexual intercourse with   04   Armageddon  Ark of the Covenant

=== 페이지 122 ===
her.   On   discovering   she   was   pregnant,   her  keeper   Desmontes   blinded   and   placed   her  in prison. Arne bore two sons, Aeolus and  Boeotus. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6) tells  the tale.  See also:   aeolus; centaur; ovid; poseidon  Aroteh   and   Tovapod   (Aricoute,   Timon-  donar)   In the mythology of the Tupi Indians of  Brazil, two primeval magicians who brought the  first men and women up from under the earth.  In the beginning there were no men or  women on the face of the earth, for they all  lived underground. They had long canine teeth  like a wild boar’s. Their hands and feet were  webbed like a duck’s. There was little food  underground for them to eat. One day the men  and women discovered a way out to the upper  earth. Aboveground they found two primeval  magicians, Aroteh and Tovapod, and stole pea -  nuts and maize from them. At first the magi -  cians believed some animal had taken the food,  but when they followed the tracks, they found  the hole where the people had come up. They  began digging around it and heard screams  from   the   underground.   As   people   emerged  from the hole, the two magicians snapped off  their tusks and shaped their hands and feet,  making them look as humans look today.  Though many men and women came to the  earth’s surface, some remained underground.  When the descendants of all those who came up  have died, the underground people, the   kinno,  will then come up and repopulate the earth.  Aroundight   In Arthurian legend, the sword  of Lancelot of the Lake. Longfellow wrote, “It  is the sword of a good knight.”  See also:   lancelot of the lake  Artemis   (slayer?, protector?)   In Greek myth -  ology, one of the 12 Olympian gods; goddess of  the moon, hunting, and childbirth and patroness  of chastity and unmarried girls; daughter of Zeus  and Leto and twin sister of Apollo. The Romans  equated her with their goddess Diana.  One of the Homeric Hymns (works ascribed  to Homer but not written by him) praises her  role as female twin to Apollo:  .   .   . Goddess of the loud chase, a maiden  revered, the slayer of stags, the archer, very  sister of Apollo of the golden blade. She  through the shadowy hills and the windy  headlands rejoicing in the chase draws her  golden bow, sending forth shafts of sorrow.  Then tremble the crests of the lofty moun -  tains, and terribly the dark woodland rings  with din of beasts, and the earth shudders,  and teeming sea. (Translated by Andrew  Lang)  Artemis    05  Artemis

=== 페이지 123 ===
The various epithets of the goddess reflect  her many roles. She was called Orthia (upright)  and Lygodesma (willow bound) because of an  image of the goddess that was said to have  been found in a thicket of willows and was held  upright by willow fronds that twined around  it. Artemis was Agrotera (huntress), Coryphaea  (of the peak), Limnaea and Limatis (of the  lake), Daphnaea (of the laurel), Lyceia or Lycea  (wolfish), Aeginaea (goat goddess), Caryatis (of  the walnut tree), Ariste (best), Calliste (fairest).  Her most famous title was Artemis Plymastus  (many-breasted);   she   appeared   in   this   form  at Ephesus. In the New Testament Artemis is  called Diana. In Acts 19 the famous temple of  Diana of the Ephesians is the great Artemisium  at Ephesus, one of the Seven Wonders of the  Ancient World. Most literary allusions to the  goddess use her Roman name, Diana.  See also:   apollo; diana; leto; olympian gods;  seven wonders of the ancient world; zeus  Arthur   (bear,   hero)   In   medieval   legend,  king of Britain. According to various medieval  sources, King Uther Pendragon and Igraine  were the parents of King Arthur. Merlin, the  magician, built a beautiful castle for Uther  Pendragon and placed in it the Round Table,  in imitation of the one Joseph of Arimathea  had once instituted. The table had places for  many knights (the number varies) and a special  place was reserved for the Holy Grail, the cup  that Christ used at the Last Supper. The Holy  Grail had disappeared from Britain because of  the sinfulness of the people.  A great festival was announced for the insti -  tution of the Round Table. All of the knights  came to Carduel (Carlisle), accompanied by  their   wives.   Among   the   latter   was   Igraine,  wife of Gorlois, lord of Tintagel in Cornwall.  When Uther Pendragon saw Igraine he fell  in love with her. Igraine already had three or  four daughters, famous in Arthurian legends  as mothers of the knights Gwain, Gravain, and  Ywaine. One of the king’s counselors, Ulfin,  told of Uther’s passion for Igraine, and she told  her husband. Indignant at the insult, Gorlois  left the court, locked up his wife in the fortress  at Tintagel, and gathered an army to fight  Uther Pendragon.  The   day   before   the   battle   Merlin   used  his magic to change Uther Pendragon into  the form of Gorlois. Merlin also transformed  himself and Ulfin into the squires of the duke  of Cornwall. In this guise the three went to  Tintagel, where Igraine opened the gates and  received Uther, thinking he was her husband.  The next morning the battle took place.  Gorlois was killed. Not long afterward Uther  married Igraine, who never suspected that the  child soon to be born was not the son of Gorlois.  When Arthur was born, he was given to Merlin,  who entrusted him to Sir Hector, who brought  up Arthur with his own son, Sir Kay. Sir Hec -  tor, however, had no idea whose son Arthur was  because Merlin never informed him.  Two years later Uther died. His noblemen,  not knowing whom to choose as his successor,  consulted Merlin, promising to abide by his  decision. By Merlin’s advice they all assembled  in St. Stephen’s Church in London on Christ -  mas Day. When Mass was over, they saw a large  stone that had mysteriously appeared in the  churchyard. The stone was surmounted by an  anvil in which the blade of a sword was deeply  sunk. Drawing near to examine the sight, they  read an inscription on the jeweled hilt. It said  that the man who could withdraw the sword was  the rightful king. All of those present attempted  to pull the sword from the stone, but all failed.  Several years had passed when Sir Hector  came to London with his son Sir Kay and his  foster son Arthur. Sir Kay, who was to take  part in his first tournament, discovered that  he had forgotten to bring his sword. Arthur  volunteered to ride home to fetch the sword;  however, he found the house closed. So he  went to the churchyard of St. Stephen, saw the  stone with the sword in it, and easily drew it  from the anvil.  This mysterious sword was given to Sir Kay  by Arthur. Sir Hector, however, recognized the   06   Arthur

=== 페이지 124 ===
Arthur and the Strange Mantle   (Aubrey Beardsley)  Arthur    0 

=== 페이지 125 ===
sword and asked Arthur how he had obtained  it. At first he refused to believe that Arthur had  removed it by himself, but after Sir Hector wit -  nessed Arthur place the sword back in the stone  and then withdraw it, he believed.  Because   Merlin   was   known   to   be   an  enchanter, rumors spread that Arthur was not  Uther Pendragon’s son but a child from the sea  who had been brought up on the ninth wave and  cast ashore at Merlin’s feet. Many people, there -  fore, mistrusted Arthur at first and refused to  give him their allegiance. Among the unbeliev -  ers were some of the king’s own family, notably  his four nephews, Gwain, Gaharin, Agravaine,  and   Garath.   Arthur   was   forced   to   declare  war against them. Although Gwain’s strength  increased from 9:00 to 12:00 in the morning,  and from 3:00 to 6:00 in the afternoon, Arthur  succeeded in defeating him by taking advantage  of his weak moments, as Merlin advised.  With Merlin’s aid Arthur ruled over the  land and established peace and justice. But one  day, having drawn his blade on Sir Pellinore  without reason, the sword suddenly failed and  broke.   Left   without   any   means   of   defense,  Arthur would have perished had not Merlin  used his magic to put Sir Pellinore to sleep and  remove Arthur to a safe place.  Deprived of his magic sword, Arthur was  at a loss as to what to do. While standing by a  lake, he saw a white-draped hand and arm rise  out of the water, holding aloft a jeweled sword  that the Lady of the Lake, who appeared beside  Arthur, told him was intended for his use.  Arthur rowed out to the middle of the lake  and secured the sword, which was known as  Excalibur. He was then told by the Lady of the  Lake that the sword possessed magic powers. As  long as the scabbard remained in Arthur’s pos -  session he would not be defeated by anyone.  Thus armed, Arthur went back to his palace  and defeated the Saxons who had invaded his  land. Arthur then came to the aid of Leode -  graunce, King of Scotland, who was threatened  by his evil brother Ryance, King of Ireland.  Ryance was determined to complete a mantle  furred with the beards of kings and wanted to  secure Leodegraunce’s for the last one. Arthur  not only killed Ryance but took the mantle and  carried it away as a trophy.  Later   Arthur   returned   to   Leodegraunce’s  court and fell in love with Guinever, the king’s  daughter. Merlin objected to the marriage unless  Arthur first had a successful campaign in Brit -  tany. When the king returned in triumph a wed -  ding was celebrated at Camelot (Winchester) at  Pentecost. Arthur received the Round Table as a  gift. Earlier Arthur had successfully defeated the  12 kings who had revolted against him. Their  remains had been interred at Camelot by his  order. There Merlin erected a castle containing  a special hall for the reception of the Round  Table. The hall was adorned with lifelike stat -  ues of all of the conquered kings, each holding  a burning taper that Merlin said would burn  brightly until the Holy Grail should appear.  The   variant   legends   range   from   12   (the  mystical number of Christ’s Apostles) to more  than 100 knights of the Round Table. Among  the many knights connected with the Round  Table, Lancelot was the handsomest. He fell in  love with Guinever, and the queen returned his  love. In time the queen was accused of adultery,  and Lancelot, who had disappeared for some  time, returned to the court to defend her honor,  then left for Brittany. Arthur pursued Lancelot,  leaving Guinever in the care of Mordred, his  nephew, or as some accounts say, his son.  Mordred   immediately   took   advantage   of  Arthur’s absence and seized the throne, say -  ing that Arthur had been killed. He then tried  to force Guinever to marry him. At first she  refused but finally consented for fear of her life.  However,   she   asked   Mordred   permission   to  go to London to buy some wedding garments.  When the queen arrived in the city she went to  the Tower and sent word to Arthur of what had  happened. Without delay Arthur abandoned the  siege of Lancelot’s castle and, crossing the chan -  nel, encountered Mordred’s army near Dover.  Negotiations took place, and it was agreed  that Arthur and a certain number of knights   0    Arthur

=== 페이지 126 ===
Introduction    0  Arthur    0   Guinevere   (Gustave Doré)  should meet Mordred with an equal number  to discuss peace terms. No weapons were to be  drawn. A serpent, however, was lurking in the  grass when the knights met, and one of them  drew his sword to kill it. His drawn sword was  taken as a signal to begin the battle. On both  sides the slaughter was terrible, and nearly all of  the knights were slain. Arthur then encountered  Mordred. Summoning all of his strength, the  exhausted king finally slew the usurper, but not  before Mordred dealt Arthur a mortal blow.  This never would have happened if Mor -  gan le Fay, Arthur’s evil sister, had not stolen  his magic scabbard and substituted another.

=== 페이지 127 ===
All of the enemy’s army had perished, and of  Arthur’s knights only one man remained alive,  Sir Bedivere. He hastened to Arthur’s side, and  Arthur, giving him his sword, asked him to cast  it into the lake. At first Bedivere refused but  finally did as Arthur asked. As the magic sword  touched the waters, Sir Bedivere saw a hand  and arm rise up from the depths of the water to  seize it, brandish it three times, and disappear.  Arthur gave a sigh of relief when he heard  this report. He then told his faithful knight that  Merlin had said Arthur would not die. He asked  Sir Bedivere to place him on a barge hung with  black. Sir Bedivere obeyed, then seeing Arthur  about to leave him, he asked permission to  accompany him. However, Arthur could not  grant the wish because he had to go to Avalon  to be cured of his wound and wait to return one  day to his sorrowing people.  King Arthur’s legend is one of the high  points of medieval imagination, representing  a portrait of the ideal Christian hero, whose  life and deeds often parallel those of his mas -  ter,   Jesus.   Some   of   the   analogies   to   Jesus’  life that run through the complex legend are  Arthur’s birth under mysterious circumstances;  his betrayal by a loved one, Guinever; his death  at the hands of his enemies; his triumph over  death, when he is taken to Avalon, the land of  bliss; and finally, the belief that he will return  when Britain is in most need.  Around this thread medieval imagination  wove a rich tapestry of legends that are still  potent today, as witnessed by the success of T.  H. White’s novel   The Once and Future King   and  Lerner and Lowe’s Broadway musical   Camelot,  both dealing with Arthur and his legend.  Did King Arthur actually exist? Scholars  disagree. Some medievalists believe that King  Arthur’s legend is based on Artorius, a British  war chief, leader of the Romanized Britons  against Saxon war bands that invaded Britain  from about 450 onward.  The   Cambrian Annals,   written in the 10th  century,   say   Arthur   defeated   the   Saxons   at  Mount Badon in 516. According to the same  work, he fell in battle with Mordred in 537.  In 1113 a medieval chronicle mentions a quar -  rel between a Cornishman and some French  monks about whether King Arthur actually  existed at all. But in 1125 the historian Wil -  liam of Malmesbury defended the belief in the  historical Arthur. In the first half of the same  century, on a portal of the cathedral of Modeno  in Italy, masons portrayed a siege of a castle by  Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table.  An entire literature, both prose and poetry,  grew   up   in   medieval   Europe   around   King  Arthur. One of the first accounts is in Geof -  frey of Monmouth’s Latin work   History of the  Kings of Britain,   written in the 12th century,  which inspired an account by Wace, a French  poet, who turned the chronicle of Geoffrey  into some 14,000 lines of French verse. This  version was used by Layamon, a priest, for his  version of Arthur and British legends, running  to some 32,000 lines of alliterative verse. Addi -  tions were made by successive writers.  Chrétien de Troyes, who lived in the 12th  century at the court of the countess of Cham -  pagne in Troyes, based his poem about Arthur  (so he said) on earlier written texts, which have  not survived. In Geoffrey of Monmouth’s telling  of Arthur’s legend the emphasis is on the hero,  but in Chrétien’s poems Arthur recedes into  the background, and the adventures of Gwain,  Yvain, Erec, Lancelot, and Perceval are told.  Chrétien also tells of the love affair between  Lancelot and Guinever, King Arthur’s wife, and  how Arthur was cuckolded. Arthur as the duped  husband figures in many later tellings of the  legends. The work of Chrétien was followed by  Robert de Borron’s   Merlin,   written about 1200,  in which Arthur’s birth, his upbringing, and the  drawing of the sword are narrated. The poem  Mort Artu   (Arthur’s Death) tells of the disappear -  ance of Arthur’s sword, Excalibur, into a magic  lake when Arthur is carried away to Avalon.  Sir Thomas Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur,   though  having a French title, is a masterpiece of Eng -  lish prose of the 15th century in which all of  the previous legends were used.  Malory’s work was not the last to deal with  the King Arthur legends. Tennyson’s   Idylls of   0   Arthur

=== 페이지 128 ===
the King   owes much to Malory’s work, but  his   approach   is   different.   The   poet   makes  the adultery of Lancelot and Guinever the  evil cause of the failure of the Round Table.  Arthur tends to be more a symbolic figure in  Tennyson   than   a   flesh-and-blood   creation.  Other 19th-century poets, such as William  Morris,   Swinburne,   and   Matthew   Arnold,  also treat the legends. In the 20th century the  best versions are those of the American poet  Edwin Arlington Robinson, whose   Tristram,  Merlin,   and   Lancelot   form a trilogy on Arthu -  rian legends. Mark Twain’s   Connecticut Yankee  in King Arthur’s Court   treats the legends in a  less than respectful manner.  See also:   avalon; bedivere, sir; camelot;  excalibur;   guinever;   gwain;   holy   grail;  igraine; lady of the lake; merlin; mordred,  sir; morgan le fay; round table; tintagel;  uther pendragon  Aruru   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Babylonian-Assyrian),   a   creator   goddess,  perhaps a later manifestation of the Great  Goddess.   Together   with   the   hero   god  Marduk, she made man. In the Babylonian  epic poem   Gilgamesh   she creates Gilgamesh’s  rival   and   companion,   Enkidu,   by   washing  her hands and taking a bit of clay, which she  throws on the ground. In a variant tradition  the god Ea is credited with the creation of  mankind.  See   also:   ea; enkidu; gilgamesh; great  goddess; marduk  Asanga   In Indian legend, author of some  hymns in the Rig-Veda, a collection of hymns  to the gods. As a result of a curse by the gods,  Asanga was changed into a woman but recov -  ered his form after repenting.  See also:   rig-veda  Ascanius   (tentless)   In Roman mythology, the  son of Aeneas and his wife, Creusa. He escaped  with his parents and his grandfather, Anchises,  from burning Troy. Later Roman mythology  makes him the son of Lavinia, a Latin princess.  Ascanius succeeded his father as second king  and moved the kingdom from Lavinium to Alba  Longa, where he and his descendants reigned  for 420 years, until the reign of Numitor, son of  the Alban king Procas. Ascanius was also called  Iulus or Ilus, as well as Julus. The family of Julius  Caesar claimed descent from him. Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 1) tells part of his tale.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   lavinia  Asclepius   (Asklepios)   (unceasingly   gentle?)  In Greek mythology, god of healing and medi -  cine, son of Apollo and Coronis, who was the  daughter of a Thessalian prince Phlegyas (or  Arsinoe). The wife of Asclepius was Epione  (soother), and his most celebrated daughters were  Hygieia (fullness bringer), goddess of recovery,  Acesis (remedy), Aegle, Iaso (cure), Janisais, and  Panacea (all-healing). In Roman religion and  mythology he was called Aesculapius. One of his  titles was Paean (healer).  Coronis was killed by Artemis for unfaith -  fulness. Her body, pregnant with Asclepius,  was about to be burned on a pyre when Apollo  snatched the boy out of her womb and handed  him over to the wise centaur Chiron. The cen -  taur instructed Asclepius in all of the healing  arts. In a variant myth Coronis accompanied  her father on a campaign to the Peloponnesus  and bore the child secretly. She exposed it on a  mountain to die, but Asclepius was nursed by a  herd of goats. When he grew up, his fame as a  healer spread. He even brought the dead back  to life. Zeus killed Asclepius with a thunderbolt  either in fear of his setting men free from death  or on a complaint from Hades, god of death.  In revenge Apollo slew all of the Cyclopes  who forged the thunderbolts. For this insult to  Zeus, Apollo had to serve Admetus for a time  as a shepherd.  In Homer and Pindar, Asclepius is only  a hero doctor and the father of two heroes,  Machaon and Podalerius. Asclepius had a wide -  spread cult in the ancient world. Cocks were  sacrificed to him. Plato has Socrates say, as his  last words, that he owes a cock to Asclepius,  the sacrifice for a cure. It was Socrates’ ironic  Asclepius   

=== 페이지 129 ===
way of saying death was the supreme “cure”  for life. Asclepius was worshipped as god of  healing in groves, beside medicinal springs, and  on mountains. The seats of his worship served  also as places of cure, where patients left thank  offerings and votive tablets describing their  complaints and the manner of the cure. Often  the cure was effected through the dreams of  the patients, who were required to sleep in  the sacred building, in which there sometimes  stood a statue of Sleep or Dreaming. Asclepi -  us’s worship extended all over Greece and its  islands and colonies.  At Rome the worship of the god was under  the name Aesculapius. His cult was introduced  by order of the Sibylline books when a plague  in 293   b.c.e.   devastated the area. The god  was brought from Epidaurus in the shape of a  snake. The animal was sacred to the god, and  snakes were kept in his temples.  In later times Asclepius was confused with  the   Egyptian   composite   god   Serapis.   He  appears in art as a bearded man holding a staff  with a serpent coiled around it.  See also:   admetus; apollo; artemis; cen -  taur; cock; hades; phlegyas; serapis; zeus  Asgard   (home   of   the   gods)   In   Norse  mythology, home of the Aesir gods. Asgard  was   surrounded   by   an   enormous   wall   and  consisted of many palaces, such as Valaskjalf,  a hall roofed with silver in which the god  Odin   lived.   Valaskjalf   contained   a   room,  Valhalla, the hall of the slain, where those  who had died in battle were feasted by the  gods. Asgard was encircled by a wall built  by the giant Hrim-thurs to protect it from  the   frost   giants.   Heimdall   was   the   watch -  man at the gate to Asgard, which could be  reached only by crossing Bifrost Bridge. It  was believed that Asgard would be destroyed  at the end of the world, Ragnarok, but finally  restored to even greater glory.  See also:   aesir; bifrost; heimdall; odin;  ragnarok; valhalla; valkyries  Asgardreia   In northern folklore, a name for  the Wild Hunt, also known as Woden’s Hunt,  which people believed was the souls of the dead  let loose during a storm.  See also:   wild hunt  Asgaya Gigagei   (red man)   In North Am-  erican Indian mythology (Cherokee), bisexual  deity, either the Red Man or the Red Woman.  Believed originally to have been a thunder  deity, Asgaya Gigagei is invoked by the medi -  cine man to cure sickness. The sex of the deity  varies with the sex of the supplicant.   2   Asgard  Asclepius

=== 페이지 130 ===
ash   A   tree   of   the   olive   family.   In   world  mythology, the ash tree is often the Cosmic  Tree or World Tree; in Nordic mythology it is  called Yggdrasil. In Hesiod’s   Work and Days   the  poet tells how Zeus created the “third genera -  tion of men” (that is, the Bronze Age) “from  ash spears.” In North American Indian mythol -  ogy the Algonquins believed that the creator  god shot an arrow into an ash tree, from which  the first human beings emerged.  See also:   yggdrasill; zeus  Asherah   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Canaanite), sea goddess, mother of the gods;  her son was Ashtar, a Ugaritic god. At ancient  Ugarit, Asherah was the mother-goddess, con -  sort of El, and mother of 70 gods, including  Baal. She appears as a rival of Yahweh, the  Hebrew god, in the Old Testament. She was  represented by a plain pole, a carved pole, a  triangle on a staff, a cross, a double ax, a tree, a  tree stump, a headdress for priests, and a wood -  en image. Asherah is seen in some texts to be a  variant of the Great Mother goddess Ishtar.  See also:   baal; el; ishtar; yahweh  Ashta-mangala   In   Buddhism,   the   Eight  Glorious Emblems. They are found in numer -  ous Oriental art works. They are the Wheel of  the Dharma, the Conch Shell, the Umbrella,  the Canopy, the Lotus, the Vase, the Paired  Fish,   and   the   Entrails,   or   Endless   Knot.  Sometimes a bell is substituted for the Wheel  of the Dharma. In Chinese the Eight Glorious  Emblems are called   Pa Chi-hsiang.  See also:   dharma  Ashtavakra   (eight crooked limbs)   In Hindu  legend, a priest who was cursed by his father  before birth and was born deformed.  Kahoda,   the   father   of   Ashtavakra,   paid  so little attention to his wife and her preg -  nancy that the still unborn child, Ashtavakra,  rebuked him for his neglect. Kahoda, angry  at the child’s impertinence, condemned him  to be born deformed. Despite this, when his  father   was   killed,   Ashtavakra   went   to   seek  vengeance on the sage who had committed  the crime. When he got the better of the sage  and was ready to throw him into a river (his  father had been drowned), the sage told him  that he was the son of the god of the waters  and had thrown people into the water in order  to obtain priests for the cult. Then Ashtavakra  was told by the sage to bathe in the waters and  he would be healed. He did, and his deformity  disappeared.  In a variant of the legend Ashtavakra was  standing in water performing penances when he  was seen by some Apsaras, water nymphs, who  worshipped him. He was so pleased that he told  them to ask him for any gift. They asked for the  best of men as husbands. Ashtavakra came out  of the water and offered himself. When they  saw his crooked body, they laughed at him. He  was angry but could not recall the blessing he  had given them. He did say, however, that after  obtaining the blessing they should fall into the  hands of some thieves. The story was told by  Vyasa to Arjuna to console him for the loss of  the women he had loved.  See also:   arjuna  Ashur   (Ashir, Ahshur, Asir, Asshur, Asur)   In  Near Eastern mythology (Assyrian), war god  married to the chief goddess, Ishtar. Ashur was  the patron god of the city of Ashur, a military  city situated on the Tigris. It is believed to have  been the first city to employ cavalry, horse -  Ashur    3  The building of the wall in Asgard  FPO  Fig.56

=== 페이지 131 ===
drawn chariots, and siege machinery. Ashur was  symbolized by a winged disk that enclosed a  human figure shooting an arrow. Sometimes he  appeared eagle-headed. Other animals associat -  ed with Ashur were the bull, the ox, and the lion.  His standard was carried into battle to indicate  his presence among his faithful followers.  See also:   ishtar  Ashva-medha   In   ancient   Hindu   ritual,   a  horse sacrifice performed in Vedic times.  In the Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata,   the  Ashva-medha is given great importance. It was  performed only by kings, and its performance  indicated that a king was a great conqueror. One  hundred Ashva-medhas would enable a mortal  king to overthrow the throne of Indra, making  the mortal the ruler of the entire universe.  During the rite a horse of a particular color  was consecrated by the priests, then allowed to  wander at will for a year. The king or his repre -  sentative followed the horse with an army. When  the horse entered a foreign country, the ruler  of the country was bound either to fight with  the invading army or submit. If the king who  followed the horse conquered all other kings  whose territory he entered, he would return in  triumph, ordering a great festival, at which the  horse was sacrificed. In some cases, however, the  horse was only symbolically sacrificed.  See also:   indra;   mahabharata, the  Ash   Wednesday   In Christianity, the sev -  enth Wednesday before Easter, the day after  “Fat Tuesday,” or mardi gras. The first day of  Lent in the Western church, observed since  the sixth century. It is said that the custom  was introduced by St. Gregory the Great. The  name comes from the ceremony of placing  blessed ashes in the form of a cross on the fore -  heads of the faithful. The priest pronounces the  words   Memento homo quia pulvis es et in pulverem  reverteris   (Remember, man, that thou art dust,  and to dust thou shalt return.) The ashes used  in the ceremony are obtained from burning the  palms used on the previous Palm Sunday.  Originally, the service was connected with  public penance. Sinners would approach the  priest shortly before Lent and accuse them -  selves.   The   priest   then   would   bring   them  before   the   bishop.   The   sinners,   dressed   in  sackcloth, were assigned acts of penance. After -  ward they went into the church and had the  ashes   imposed   on   them.   The   sinners   were  not allowed to reenter the church until Holy  Thursday, when they were reconciled. As part  of their penance they had to go barefoot, sleep  on straw, and not bathe or cut their hair.  By the end of the 11th century the rite of  public penance had been adopted by many of  the faithful. Medieval ritual was done away  with at the time of the Protestant Reformation,  but the Church of England, by special procla -  mations in 1538 and 1550, continued its use.  However, the Puritans objected to any ritual  that seemed pagan, and in time it was dropped.  The Book of Common Prayer,   therefore, had no  service for the imposing of ashes until the revi -  sion of the American prayer book in 1977. The  prayer said when ashes are imposed: “Almighty  God, you have created us out of the dust of  the earth: Grant that these ashes may be to us  a sign of our mortality and penitence, that we  may remember that it is only by your gracious  gift that we are given everlasting life; through  Jesus Christ our Savior. Amen.”  The ashes are imposed, the celebrant say -  ing: “Remember that you are dust, and to dust  you shall return.”  Eastern Orthodox churches do not observe  Ash Wednesday. Their Lent begins on Monday   4   Ashva-medha  Ashur

=== 페이지 132 ===
before Ash Wednesday, which is called Clean  Monday. The name refers not only to the  cleansing of souls but also to the washing and  scrubbing of cooking utensils to remove for the  season any trace of meat or fat, which is not  allowed to be eaten.  During the Middle Ages in England, France,  and Germany a Lenten cloth was used at the  altar during Lent. It was made of a large piece  of white or purple cloth decorated with crosses  or other symbols of the Passion of Christ. Sus -  pended in front of the sanctuary, it was parted  in the middle to symbolize the casting out of  the penitent congregation from the sight of the  altar and was was drawn apart only during the  main part of the mass. It was removed during  the reading of the Passion on Wednesday of  Holy Week.  T. S. Eliot’s “Ash Wednesday” (1930) is  an   example   of   his   Anglican   High   Church  beliefs, stressing the joy found in traditional  Christianity.  See also:   easter; gregory the great, st.  Ashwins   (Ashwin)   (horsemen)   In   Hindu  mythology, twin brother gods who preceded  Ushas, the dawn. They are young and hand -  some, bright with golden hair, and ride in a  golden chariot drawn by horses or birds. In  the Rig-Veda they are “destroyers of foes” and  “send adorable light from heaven to men.”  Some Hindu texts, however, make them into  day and night or physicians to the gods. In  their role as physicians they are called Dasras  and   Nasatyas.   According   to   some   accounts  their mother was Saranyu (fleet runner), who  bore them to her husband Vivaswat and then  fled,   leaving   in   her   place   another   woman  who looked just like her. In a variant account  Saranyu took the form of a mare and was mated  by Vivaswat, who took the form of a horse. In  their haste, however, Vivaswat’s semen fell to  the ground. Saranyu smelled it, and from the  act of smelling it the Ashwins were born.  See also:   rig-veda  Asita   In Buddhist legend, a hermit sage who  told the father of the Buddha that the child  born to him would “bring deliverance to the  whole world.”  Ask   and   Embla   (ash   and   elm)   In   Norse  mythology, the first man and woman. Odin,  Vili, and Ve (or as a variant account lists them,  Odin, Hoenir, and Lodehur) were walking along  a beach when they found “two stems of wood,  out of which they shaped a man and woman,”  according to the account in the   Prose Edda.  Odin infused them with life and spirit; Vili, with  reason and the power of motion; and Ve, with  speech and features, hearing and vision.  In another version the dwarfs make human  forms of earth, but the gods endow them with  life: one gives spirit and life, the second mind  and movement, the third appearance, speech,  hearing,   and   vision.   From   Ask   and   Embla  descended the whole human race. Ask and  Embla (the latter also spelled Emla or Emola)  appear in the   Poetic Edda.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  hoenir; khadau and mamaldi; odin;   poetic  edda ;   prose edda ; vili  Asmodeus   (destroyer)   In   Jewish   and  Christian mythology, demon of lust, sometimes  identified with the Persian demon Aeshma,  “friend of the wounding spear.”  Asmodeus is not mentioned in the Hebrew  Scriptures, but he is found in many Jewish folk -  tales and the Old Testament apocryphal Book of  Tobit. In Tobit he is in love with Sarah, daughter  of Raguel. She had been given seven husbands  and “the evil Asmodeus had slain each of them  before he had been with her as a wife” (Tobit 2:8  RSV). Tobias wished to marry Sarah and, aided  by the archangel Raphael, “took the live ashes  of incense and put the heart and liver of the fish  upon them and made a smoke.” When Asmodeus  smelled the odor he fled to the remotest part of  Egypt, where Raphael made him a prisoner.  The Latin translation of the Book of Tobit  adds the fact that Tobias and Sarah defeated  Asmodeus    5

=== 페이지 133 ===
the demon because, aside from using the fish  spell, they remained chaste for the first three  nights of their marriage. “Tobias nights” later  became a custom in some parts of Europe.  The husband and wife were not allowed to  have sexual intercourse for three nights after  the wedding. In medieval France, however, the  church allowed husbands to buy a license to  disregard the custom.  According to various Jewish sources, Asmo -  deus was the son of Naamah, a mortal woman  by either a fallen angel or by Adam before Yah -  weh had created Eve. Asmodeus was responsible  for the drunkenness of Noah in one Jewish tale  and the construction of the Temple of Solomon  in another. By the use of his magic ring King  Solomon forced Asmodeus and his devil cohort  to work on the massive undertaking. Asmodeus  was not happy, and he devised a plan to get the  better of Solomon. One day Solomon foolishly  allowed the demon to seize his magic ring.  The devil hurled the ring into the bottom of  the sea, sent the king into exile, and then ruled  in his place. However, Solomon recovered the  ring when he found it in the belly of a fish. As  punishment for his evil deed, Asmodeus was  imprisoned with his demons in a large jar.  In a romance by Le Sage,   Le Diable Boiteux  (The Lame Devil), Asmodeus is released from  his bottle or jar by Don Cleofas Zambullo. As a  reward for his release, Asmodeus lets his master  see into the various lives of people by lifting off  the rooftops of their homes. At the end of the  romance Don Cleofas marries Serafina with  the help of the demon. Le Sage’s romance was  continued in English by W. Comb in   The Devil  upon Two Sticks in England.  The   Lemegeton,   a textbook of ceremonial  magic and conjuration written in the 17th cen -  tury and often called the   Lesser Key to Solomon,  says that when Asmodeus appears to humans,  he rides a dragon, carries a spear, and has three  heads: a ram’s, a bull’s, and a man’s. All three,  of course, are noted for lechery.  See also:   adam and eve; aeshma; angel;  noah; raphael; solomon  Asoka   (Ashoka)   (third century   b.c.e. )   King  of the Mauryan empire in North India, perhaps  converted to Buddhism. In Buddhist works he  is portrayed as a king who wished to spread  Buddhism   throughout   his   empire,   including  Ceylon. He is said to have had 64,000 Buddhist  monks in his palace and to have had more than  80,000 Buddhist shrines constructed.  Asopus   (never silent)   In Greek mythology,  a river god, son of Poseidon or of Oceanus  and Tethys. His wife was Metope, daughter  of Ladon. Their children included Pelagon,  Pelagus, and Ismenus, and many daughters,  who were often abducted and raped by the  gods; among them Aegina, Antiope, Cleone,  Corcyra, Plataea, Salamis, and Thebe. When  his daughter Aegina was carried off by Zeus,  Asopus was determined to have his revenge.  Asopus chased Zeus and found him in a for -  est. Zeus, not armed with his thunderbolts,  changed himself into a huge stone, and Asopus  lost him. Zeus then went to Olympus, where he  hurled thunderbolts at Asopus, wounding and  laming the river god. According to the ancient  Greeks, the reason the Asopus River flowed  so slowly was that the thunderbolts hurled by  Zeus left charcoal in the riverbed.  See also:   antiope; ladon; poseidon; zeus  aspen   A poplar tree with quivering leaves,  popularly known as a quaking aspen. In Christian  folklore the aspen trembles because it refused to  bend to the Christ when the Holy Family made  the flight into Egypt. The child Jesus, accord -  ing to one medieval text, looked at the tree in  such a way that “she trembles evermore.” In a  variant account the aspen was used to make the  True Cross, the cross on which Jesus was cruci -  fied, and has trembled ever since.  See also:   cross  Asphodel Fields   In Greek mythology, the  meadow of the dead. According to Homer’s  Odyssey   (book   14),   Odysseus   saw   the   dead  heroes Achilles, Patroclus, and others in the   6   Asoka

=== 페이지 134 ===
Asphodel Fields. The asphodel was the flower  of the underworld (or Hades).  See also:   achilles; hades; odysseus;   odys -  sey, the;   patroclus  ass   Horselike   mammal   with   large   ears,  erect mane, and dark stripe along the back.  Noted for its stupidity, obstinacy, lewdness,  and patience, the ass appears in world folk -  lore   and   mythology.   In   Egyptian   mythol -  ogy the ass is associated with the evil god  Set. Greek mythology associates the animal  with Dionysus, Typhon, Priapus, and Cronos.  In the Old Testament, as in Aesop’s fables,  asses   talk   (Num.   22:4–24:25).   Yahweh,   the  Hebrew god, talks through the ass to Balaam,  a Midianite magician who had set out to curse  the Israelites but ended by blessing them. The  biblical account does not say what happened to  the speaking asses. According to later Jewish  legend, an angel slew the animal to make  sure the Hebrews would not be tempted to  worship it as they had earlier worshipped the  golden calf. Ancient Roman authors accused  the Jews of worshipping an ass-headed god,  and the Jesuits in the 17th century accused the  Masons of the same crime. One medieval bes -  tiary equates the ass with the devil because the  ass “brays about the place night and day, hour  by hour, seeking its prey.” During the Middle  Ages, however, at the Feast of Fools, the ass  on   which   Jesus   made   his   triumphal   entry  into Jerusalem was honored. The congrega -  tion, upon reaching the end of each prayer,  would bray instead of saying “Amen.” The  dark stripe running down the back of an ass is  crossed by another at the shoulder. According  to legend this cross was left on the ass when  Jesus rode it into Jerusalem. There are numer -  ous motifs associated with the ass in the   Motif  Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   aesopic fables; balaam; diony -  sus; fools, feast of; priapus; set; typhon;  yahweh  ass     Titania and Bottom [ with an ass’s head ]: Scene from  A Midsummer Night’s Dream   (John Anster Fitzgerald)

=== 페이지 135 ===
Ass in the Lion’s Skin, The   Aesopic fable  found throughout the world.  Once upon a time an ass found a lion’s skin  and put it on. In this disguise he roamed about,  frightening all the silly animals he met. When a  fox came along, the ass in the lion’s skin tried to  frighten him too. But the fox, having heard his  voice, said: “If you really want to frighten me,  you will have to disguise your bray.”  Moral:   Clothes may disguise a fool, but his  words will give him away.  The fable is found in the   Jatakas, or Birth-  Stories of the Former Lives of the Buddha.   The ass  in the   jataka   is dressed every morning by his  master in the lion’s skin, so as to obtain free  pastureage by frightening away the villagers.  The same story is told of a hare in South Africa,  and Thackeray includes a reference to it in the  prologue to his novel   The Newcomers.  See also:   aesopic fables;   jataka  Ass’s Brains   Aesopic fable found in various  collections throughout the world.  A lion and a fox went hunting together. The  lion, on the advice of the fox, sent a message to  the ass, proposing to make an alliance between  their two families. The ass came to the place of  meeting, overjoyed at the prospect of a royal  alliance. But when he arrived the lion simply  pounced on the ass and said to the fox: “Here  is our dinner for today. Watch you here while I  go and have a nap. Woe betide you if you touch  my prey.”  The lion went away and the fox waited.  Finding that his master did not return, he  ventured to take out the brains of the ass and  eat them. When the lion came back, he soon  noticed the absence of the brains. He asked the  fox, “What have you done with the brains?”  “Brains, Your Majesty! It had none, or it  would never have fallen into your trap.”  Moral:   Wit always has an answer ready.  The fable appears in the great Indian collec -  tion   The Panchatantra,   as well as in a rabbinic  commentary on Exodus. In both the Indian  version and the Greek original the animal loses  its heart, which was regarded as the seat of  intelligence.  See also:   aesopic fables;   panchatantra  Astarotte   In the Charlemagne cycle of leg -  ends, a friend who by magic conducts Rinaldo  from Egypt to Roncesvalles in just a few hours.  He appears in Pulci’s epic   Il Morgante Maggiore.  See also:   charlemagne; morgante; rinaldo  Astarte   (Aserah,   Asherah,   Asherat,   Ashtart,  Ashtoreth)   In   Near   Eastern   mythology,  Great Mother goddess worshipped throughout  the ancient Near East, identical with the god -  dess Ishtar.  Astarte was one of the most popular god -  desses in the entire pantheon of the Near East;  in the Old Testament she was the great rival  of Yahweh, the Hebrew deity, in the affections  of the people. The Book of Judges (2:12) tells  how the Jews “forsook the Lord God of their  fathers, which brought them out of the land of  Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of  people that were round about them, and bowed  themselves   unto   them   .   .   .”   Of   these   many  strange gods, often connected with fertility  rites, Astarte was the leading female deity. King  Solomon built “high places” or sanctuaries “on  the right hand of the mountain of corruption  .   .   . for Ashtoreth [a variant of her name] the  abomination of the Zidonians” (2 Kings 23:13).  Later we are told how the evil King Ahab and  his wife, Jezebel, were devoted to the goddess,  maintaining some 400 prophets in her honor.  The rivalry between Astarte and Yahweh  was in part due to the goddess’s role as pro -  moter of fertility in plants, animals, and men.  Part of her cult consisted of male and female  prostitution. Astarte was so popular that her  worship spread to Rome, where it was eagerly  accepted. The Roman writer Apuleius, in his  novel   The Golden Ass,   cynically describes the  priests of Astarte with “their faces daubed with  rouge and their eye sockets painted to bring  out the brightness of their eyes.” Ironically,  during the Middle Ages the Christians turned     Ass in the Lion’s Skin, The

=== 페이지 136 ===
the goddess into a male demon, Astaroth, and  connected him with the archdemon Asmodeus.  In   1637   Madame   de   Montespan   sacrificed  children to Astarte and Asmodeus, “princes of  amity,” in her attempt to maintain her hold on  the affection of Louis XIV.  The goddess has appealed to poets. Milton  in his   Ode on the Morning of Christ’s Nativity  makes reference to:  .   .   . mooned Ashtaroth,  Heaven’s Queen and Mother both .   .   .  In   Paradise Lost   (book 1) he again mentions  the goddess, spelling her name differently:  With these in troop  Came Astoreth, whom the Phoenicians  called  Astarte, Queen of Heaven with Crescent  horns.  Milton believed the “crescent horns” referred  to   the   goddess   in   her   role   as   moon   deity,  though some scholars associate the horns with  the cow, as a symbol of fertility.  Byron, in his poetic drama   Manfred,   gives  the name Astarte to the beloved of the suffer -  ing hero, Manfred. D. G. Rossetti, the English  portaitist, painted   Astarte Syriaca,   in which the  goddess has all of the decking of a pre-Rapha -  elite beauty—heavy lips and long, waving hair.  The   oldest   known   image   of   Astarte,   at  Paphos, portrayed the goddess in the form of a  white conical stone. In Canaan and Phoenicia  she assumed the form of a cow or had the head  of a cow or bull. Later she was symbolized by a  star. In later art she was portrayed as the Queen  of Heaven, and the lion was her symbol. One  statue from Mesopotamia (c. 2000   b.c.e. ) por -  trays a nude woman with a horned headdress  wearing earrings and necklace. Cypress groves  were sacred to the goddess.  See also:   asmodeus; ishtar; jezebel; solo -  mon; yahweh  Asteria   (heavenly)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  daughter of Ceus (Coeus) and Phoebe, both  Titans. Asteria was the mother of Hecate by  Perses and sister of Leto. (In some accounts  Hecate is another form of Artemis.) Asteria  was   pursued   by   Zeus   against   her   will;   she  transformed herself into a quail and leaped into  the sea to escape his sexual advances. She then  turned into an island, Ortygia. The island later  became the birthplace of Apollo and Artemis  when Leto, their mother, sought refuge there.  Four   pillars   arose   from   the   sea;   the   island  became anchored and was then called Delos  (Asteria). Asteria’s fate is narrated in Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 6).  See also:   apollo; artemis; hecate; leto;  ovid; zeus  Astolat   In Arthurian legend, a town identi -  fied in Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur   as Guildford in  Surrey. The Fair Maid of Astolat was Elaine le  Blank, who died for love of Lancelot. Tennyson’s  Astolat     Elaine   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 137 ===
early poem “The Lady of Shalott” and his  longer poem   Lancelot and Elaine   tell the tale.  Edward MacDowell’s symphonic poem   Lancelot  and Elaine   is based on Tennyson’s poem.  See also:   elaine  Astolpho   In the Charlemagne cycle of legends,  one of the 12 Paladins of Charlemagne. Astolpho  was an English duke who joined Charlemagne  in his struggle with the Saracens (Muslims). He  was a great braggart but very generous, courte -  ous, and handsome. In Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso  he is carried to Alcina’s magic isle on the back of  a whale. When the enchantress becomes bored  with him sexually, she transforms him into a  myrtle tree. Astolpho is later disenchanted by  Melissa. He also descends to the underworld  and takes a trip to the moon to find the wits,  or brains, of Orlando (Roland), bringing them  back in a vial to cure Orlando of his madness.  Logistilla gives Astolpho a book called   Astolpho’s  Book,   which will direct him on his journeys. He  also has a horn, another gift from Logistilla.  Whenever it is sounded, any human or animal  within hearing distance is seized with panic and  becomes an easy prey of Astolpho.  See also:   charlemagne; myrtle; paladins,  the twelve; roland  Astraea   (starry)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess of justice; daughter of Zeus and Themis;  sister of the Moerae and the Horae; sometimes  called   Dike;   she   lived   on   earth   during   the  Golden Age but fled when men became wick -  ed. She was placed among the constellations of  the Zodiac as Virgo. Vergil refers to the god -  dess in his   Fourth Eclogue : “Now returns the  Virgin, too, the Golden Age returns.” Dryden,  the English poet, wrote   Astraea Redux   (1660)  to celebrate the return of Charles II after the  harsh rule of Cromwell. Alexander Pope also  used the image in his poem   Messiah,   which  deals with the coming of Christ. Pope used  the name directly in   Imitations of Horace   (First  Epistle, Second Book) when he writes:  The stage how loosely does Astraea tread,  Who fairly puts all characters to bed.  The lines refer to Mrs. Aphra Behn, who  used the   nom de plume   Astraea. She wrote plays  in which women often had to resort to sex to  win their ends. In   The Faerie Queene   by Spenser  the knight of Justice, Artegall, is brought up by  Astraea.  See also:   themis; zeus  Astraeus   (starry)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  Titan, son of Crius and Eurybia; brother of  Pallas and Perses. He was the father by Eos,  the goddess of dawn, of the stars, and of the  winds—Boreas, Hesperus, Notus, Phosphorus,  Zephyrus, and, according to some accounts,  Aura. He was also an enemy of Zeus.  See also:   boreas; hesperus; pallas; titans;  zephyrus; zeus  Astyanax   (king of the city)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a young son of Hector and Andromache.  He was saved from burning Troy by his mother,  only to be thrown from its towers by the Greeks,  who feared he would grow up to avenge the  death of his father, Hector. Odysseus advised  that the child be killed. In some variant accounts  Menelaus is said to have killed the boy or  Achilles’ son Pyrrhus (Neoptolemus). Astyanax  appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (book 6), Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 2), and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13).  Astyanax was also known as Scamandrius.  See also:   andromache; hector;   iliad, the;  menelaus; odysseus; ovid  Asuras   (divine beings)   In Hindu mythology,  demons often in combat with the gods. In the  epic myths contained in the   Puranas   and other  late Hindu writings, the Asuras are powerful evil  beings. In the earlier Vedas, however, the name  Asuras is often applied to the gods themselves,  rather than to their enemies, the demons.  See also:   puranas ; vedas   20   Astolpho

=== 페이지 138 ===
Ataensic   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Iroquois), sky woman, creator goddess,  mother   of   twin   brothers,   Hah-gweh-di-yu  (sapling) and Hah-gweh-da-et-gah (flint), one  good and one evil.  Long ago there grew one stately tree that  branched beyond the range of vision. Perpetu -  ally laden with fruit and blossoms, the air was  fragrant with the tree’s perfume. People gath -  ered under its shade when councils were held.  One day the Great Ruler said to his people:  “We will make a new place where another  people may grow. Under our council tree is  a great cloud sea that calls for our help. It is  lonesome. It knows no rest and calls for light.  We will talk to it. The roots of our council tree  point to it and will show the way.”  Having   commanded   that   the   tree   be  uprooted,   the   Great   Ruler   peered   into   the  depths where the roots had grown. He then  summoned   Ataensic,   the   sky   woman,   who  was with child, and asked her to look down.  She saw nothing. The Great Ruler, however,  knew that the sea voice was calling and bidding  Ataensic to carry light to it. He wrapped a great  ray of light around Ataensic and sent her down  to the cloud sea.  When the animals saw the blinding light  they became frightened.  “If it falls, we will be destroyed,” they said.  “Where can it rest?” asked Duck.  “Only the   oeh-da   [earth] can hold it,” said  Beaver, “the   oeh-da,   which lies at the bottom of  our waters. I will bring it up.”  The beaver went down but never returned.  Then Duck ventured, but soon his dead body  floated to the surface.  Many other divers also failed. Then Musk -  rat, knowing the way, volunteered. He soon  returned bearing a small portion of mud in his  paw. “But it is heavy and will grow fast,” he  said. “Who will bear it?”  Turtle was willing, and   oeh-da   was placed  on his hard shell. Hah-nu-nah, the turtle, then  became the earth bearer. The   oeh-da   grew, and  Ataensic, hearing the voices under her heart,  one soft and soothing, the other loud and con -  tentious, knew that her mission to people the  island was nearing. Inside Ataensic were the  twin brothers Hah-gweh-di-yu, who was good,  and Hah-gweh-da-et-gah, who was evil. Hah-  gwehda-   et-gah,   discovering   that   there   was  some light coming from his mother’s armpit,  thrust himself through it, causing Ataensic’s  death. Hah-gwehdi-yu, however, was born in  the natural manner. Foreknowing their power,  each claimed dominion over the other. Hah-  gweh-di-yu claimed the right to beautify the  land, whereas Hah-gwehda-et-gah was deter -  mined to destroy it.  Hah-gweh-di-yu shaped the sky with the  palm of his hand and created the sun from the  face of his dead mother, saying, “You shall rule  here where your face will shine forever.” But the  evil brother set darkness in the western sky to  drive the sun down before it. The good brother  then drew forth the moon and the stars from  the breast of his mother and led them to the sun  as its sisters who would guard the night sky. He  gave to the earth her body, its Great Mother,  from whom was to spring all life.  The two then created all that is on the  earth.   Hah-gweh-di-yu   created   mountains,  valleys, forests, fruit-bearing trees, and good  animals, such as the deer. Hah-gweh-da-et-  gah, the evil one, created monsters that dwell  in the sea, hurricanes, tempests, wild beasts  that devour, grim flying creatures that steal life  from helpless victims, and creeping poisonous  reptiles.  When the earth was completed, Hah-gwe -  hdi-yu bestowed a protecting spirit on each of  his creations. He then asked his evil brother to  make peace, but Hah-gweh-da-et-gah refused  and   challenged   Hah-gweh-di-yu   to   combat,  the victor to be ruler of the earth.  Hah-gweh-da-et-gah   proposed   weapons  that he could control—poisonous roots strong  as flint, monster’s teeth, and fangs of serpents.  But these Hah-gweh-di-yu refused, selecting  the thorns of the giant crabapple tree, which  were arrow pointed and strong.  Ataensic    2 

=== 페이지 139 ===
They fought with the thorns, and Hah-  gwehda-et-gah was defeated. Hah-gweh-di-yu,  having become ruler of the earth, banished  his brother to a pit under the earth, whence  he cannot return. But he still retains servers,  half human and half beasts, whom he sends  to continue his destructive work. They can  assume any shape or form. Hah-gweh-di-yu  the good, however, is continually creating and  protecting.  See also:   earth diver: gluskap and mal -  sum; iouskeha and tawiscaron  Atago-Gongen   In Japanese Buddhist myth-  ology, god worshipped on Mount Atago in the  province of Yamashiro; he is the patron god  of fire. His temple, built in the eighth century  c.e.,   became popular with the military caste,  and numerous warriors came to pray to the  god, who is portrayed as a Chinese warrior on  horseback.  Atai   In African mythology (Efik of Nigeria),  wife of the sky god Abassi who sent death into  the world. Abassi placed the first couple on  earth but forbade them to work or produce  children for fear they would become more  powerful than he. But the couple produced  food and children, provoking Abassi to ask his  wife Atai to punish them. She sent death and  discord into the world to plague humankind.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla  Atalanta   (equal   in   weight,   unswaying)   In  Greek   mythology,   two   women:   Atalanta   of  Peleus and Atalanta wrestling, from a Chalcidian black-figured hydria, c. 550   b . c.   22   Atago-Gongen

=== 페이지 140 ===
Arcadia, a virgin huntress, daughter of Iasus  and Clymene; and Atalanta of Boeotia, daugh -  ter of Schoeneus, king of Scyros. Some schol -  ars, however, regard the two as one person.  Atalanta of Arcadia was the supposed daugh -  ter of Iasus of Arcadia, though her real father  was Zeus. Iasus wanted a son, and when Ata -  lanta was born he exposed the girl on a moun -  tain to die. (It was a common practice of the  Greeks to let their female infants die.) Artemis,  however, protected the child by sending a she-  bear to nurse Atalanta until the child was found  by a band of hunters, who rescued her and  brought her up. Atalanta was told that if she  married she would be unhappy, so she avoided  men. She devoted her time to hunting and  became so skilled that she killed two centaurs  who had attempted to rape her. Some ancient  accounts say Atalanta was with the Argonauts  in the quest for the Golden Fleece.  Meleager of Calydon fell in love with her  and invited her to join the Calydonian boar  hunt.   The   men,   however,   objected.   Melea -  ger said he would leave if Atalanta was not  accepted, and the men reluctantly accepted her.  Atalanta was the first to draw blood from the  boar. Ancaeus, another hunter, said he would  teach her how to kill a boar. He attacked the  boar and was disemboweled by the boar’s tusks.  Meleager then struck the fatal blow and pre -  sented Atalanta with the boar’s hide and tusks.  The men of the hunt were insulted by his pre -  senting the prize to a woman.  According to some accounts, Atalanta and  Meleager had a son, Parthenopaeus, who was  exposed by his mother on a mountain to die.  She then pretended she had never married and  was a virgin. Atalanta returned home and was  welcomed by her father, who now wished to  see her married. She remembered the oracle  that said she would be unhappily married and  devised a means to defeat her father’s schemes.  She informed her suitors that whoever wanted  to marry her must first beat her in a foot race,  but whoever lost to her in the race must die.  Many suitors died as a result, but they still  came. One, Hippomenes (or Melanion), prayed  to Aphrodite, goddess of love, to help him win  Atalanta. The goddess brought three golden  apples from her garden on the island of Cyprus  and gave them to Hippomenes with directions  for their proper use. The race was begun, and  Atalanta was about to pass Hippomenes when  he dropped one of the golden apples. Atalanta  slowed down to pick it up. Hippomenes then  dropped the second and third apples and won  the race. At first Atalanta did not want to honor  her bargain, but eventually she did. The two  were so happy that they forgot to thank Aphro -  dite. The goddess then made them offend Zeus  or Cybele by causing them to make love in the  deity’s temple. Because of the sacrilege, Ata -  lanta was transformed into a lioness and Hip -  pomenes into a lion. The two were then yoked  to Cybele’s chariot to draw it for eternity. The  other Atalanta, of Boeotia (or perhaps the same  one), was the daughter of the king of Scyros.  She married Hippomenes (or Melanion).  Atalanta’s myth is told in Ovid’s   Metamor -  phoses   (book 10), in which Venus narrates the  tale to Adonis. This was the version painted  by Poussin. The tale is also told in   The Earthly  Paradise   by William Morris and in Swinburne’s  play   Atalanta in Calydon.  See   also:   aphrodite; argonauts; arte -  mis; calydonian boar hunt; centaur; golden  fleece; meleager; ovid; venus; zeus  Atar   (Ataro)   In Persian mythology, fire god,  protector against demons; son of the good god,  Ahura   Mazda.   Atar   watched   over   pregnant  women   and   bitches   and   blessed   those   who  brought him dry wood for the fire sacrifice.  One myth records his battle with the demon  Azhi Dahaka. The demon tried to seize the  Divine Glory by rushing toward it and trying  to extinguish it. (It would seem to be some form  of fire or light.) However, Atar cursed Azhi  Dahaka, saying he would burn his “hinder part”  if he did not give in. Threatened with such vio -  lence to his person, the demon relented.  See also:   ahura mazda; azhi dahaka  Atar    23

=== 페이지 141 ===
Atargatis   (Atarate,   Atargate,   Atharate)   In  Near   Eastern   mythology   (Hittite),   mother  goddess, associated with the moon and fertility;  called Dea Suria in Roman mythology.  Atargatis was born from an egg that the  sacred fishes found in the Euphrates and pushed  ashore. Her shrine at Ascalon had a pool near  her temple that contained sacred fish. The  Old Testament Apocrypha book 2 Maccabees  (12:26) tells how Judas Maccabeus “marched  forth to Carnion, and to the temple of Atarga -  tis, and there he slew five and twenty thousand  persons.” A marginal note to the King James  Version says in reference to Atargatis, “That  is, Venus.”  Atargatis’s cult was very popular in the  Near East, and she was known under various  names. The Phoenicians called her Dereto,  and some scholars believe the goddess Atheh,  worshipped at Tarsus, was another version of  the goddess. The Greeks identified her with  Aphrodite.  In art Atargatis was sometimes portrayed as  half woman and half fish. Doves were sacred to  her, and fish were used in her worship.  See also:   aphrodite; atheh  Atchet   (the nurse?)   In Egyptian mythology,  goddess associated with the sun god Ra and in  some texts considered the female counterpart  of the sun god. Atchet may have been a deity  associated with nursing children.  See also:   ra  Ate   (reckless guilt, ruin)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a goddess of discord, evil, mischief, and  infatuation and the personification of moral  blindness; daughter of Zeus and Eris; identified  by the Romans with their goddess Discordia.  Ate was cast out of heaven by Zeus because she  had misled him. One day, according to Homer’s  Iliad   (book 19), Zeus, tricked by Ate, boasted  among the gods that on that day a man should  be born, mightiest of his race, who should rule  over many. Hera saw an opportunity to deceive  Zeus, who was waiting for the birth of Heracles  by one of Hera’s female rivals. After getting  Zeus to make an oath that he would keep his  word, Hera persuaded the goddess of child -  birth to delay Heracles’ birth and hasten that  of Eurystheus, who then had power even over  Heracles. Ate was not invited to the marriage  of Peleus and Thetis. Angry, she wrote “For  the fairest” on the Golden Apple and rolled it  into the midst of the gathering. The goddesses  all claimed it. Zeus refused to make judgment,  and the matter was given to Paris. His choice  of Aphrodite caused the Trojan War. Behind  Ate go the Litai (prayers), the lame, wrinkled,  squinting daughters of Zeus. They can heal  the evils of Ate, but they bring new evils upon  the stubborn. Hesiod’s   Theogony   mentions the  goddess.  See also:   aphrodite; hera; heracles; hes -  iod;   iliad, the;   peleus; thetis  Atea and Papa   (sky and flat)   In Polynesian  mythology, the sky and the earth, who were  later made into gods. In one myth the couple  held themselves in such a tight sexual embrace  that none of their children could free them -  selves. Finally, the children conspired to kill  their mother and father, but one of the children,  Tane, suggested that the two be separated. This  was done, forming the sky and earth.  See also:   tane  Aten   (Aton,   Adon,   Eton)   In   Egyptian  mythology,   the   sun   disk   worshipped   by  Akhenaton (1372–1355   b.c.e. ). Surviving hymns  to Aten emphasize his role as a benevolent  creator. He is said to have “made everything  according to his heart” when he was alone.  One hymn to Aten by the pharaoh has been  preserved. It opens:  Thy rising is beautiful in the horizon of  heaven, O thou Aten, who hadst thine  existence in primeval time. When thou  riseth in the eastern horizon thou fillest  every land with thy beauties. Thou art  beautiful to see, and art great, and art like   24   Atargatis

=== 페이지 142 ===
crystal, and art high above the earth. Thy  beams of light embrace the land, even  every land which thou hast made. Thou art  as Ra, and thou bringest thyself unto each  of them, And thou bindest them with thy  love. Thou art remote, but thy beams are  upon the earth.  Although this extract from the hymn gives  some idea of Akhenaton’s views and those of his  followers concerning the Aten, it is still impos -  sible to gather precise information about the  details of cult and belief. Incense was burned  several times a day, and hymns were sung to the  Aten, accompanied by harps and other instru -  ments. Offerings to the deity consisted of fruits  and flowers, with no animal sacrifice. Worship  was joyous. Mika Waltari’s novel   The Egyptian  deals with the failure of Akhenaton to convince  the priests to worship the Aten over other gods.  See also:   akhenaton  Athaliah   (Yahweh   has   shown   his   sublimity)  In   the   Bible,   O.T.,   queen,   the   daughter   of  Ahab and Jezebel and the wife of Joram, king  of Judah. After Joram’s death, Athaliah’s son  Ahaziah took the throne after killing the princes  of King David’s house. Athaliah ruled for six  years. When Joash, who had escaped massacre,  was proclaimed rightful king, Athaliah entered  the temple, where she was killed by the mob (2  Kings 11). Jean Racine’s play   Athalie   uses the  biblical legend. Mendelssohn wrote incidental  music for the play.  See also:   david; jezebel  Athamas   (reaper on high)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a king of Achaea, Orchomenus, Phthiotis,  or Thebes (ancient accounts vary); son of Aeolus  and Enarete; husband of Nephele; father of  Phryxus and Helle. Anthamas later married Ino,  daughter of Cadmus, and the couple had two  sons, Learchus and Melicertes. His children fled  to Colchis on a golden ram to escape the wrath  of their jealous stepmother, Ino, who resented  Athamas’s preference of them over her own  children. Athamas accidentally killed his son  Learchus, mistaking him for a stag.  See also:   aeolus; cadmus  Athanasius,   St.   (immortal)   (c.   296–373)   In  Christian legend, bishop of Alexandria; one of the  Greek Doctors of the Church. Feast, 2 May.  A pupil of St. Anthony the Abbot, Atha -  nasius wrote what is considered the first full-  length biography of a saint. He is best known  for the Athanasian Creed, which scholars now  say was not composed by the saint, though  the saint was a staunch defender of orthodoxy  over Arianism, a heresy of the early church.  The Athanasian Creed is one of three creeds  accepted   by   the   Roman   and   the   Anglican  Churches. In Christian art he is portrayed as  old, bald, and with a long white beard, wearing  vestments of the Greek church.  See also:   anthony the abbot, st.; doctors  of the church  Atheh   In Near Eastern mythology, goddess  worshipped at Taraus, portrayed wearing a veil  and seated on a lion. Some scholars believe  Atheh to be another version of the Hittite  mother goddess, Atargatis.  See also:   atargatis  Athena   (Athene)   (queen   of   heaven)   In  Greek mythology, one of the 12 Olympian  gods;   goddess   of   wisdom,   skill,   and   war -  fare; identified with Minerva by the Romans.  Athena was born, full grown, out of the head  of   Zeus,   who   had   swallowed   his   first   wife  Metis (counsel) for fear that she would bear  a   son   superior   to   himself.   Hephaestus   (or  Prometheus) opened Zeus’s head with an ax,  and Athena sprang forth clad in armor. Her  ancient epithet Tritogeneia (born of Triton or  the roaring flood) would seem to indicate that  she was the daughter of the ocean. Oceanus,  according to Homer, was the origin of all  things, all gods and goddesses.  Athena had a prominent place in ancient  Greek religion. When solemn oaths were to be  Athena    25

=== 페이지 143 ===
taken, her name was invoked along with those of  Zeus and Apollo. Athens, named for her, was the  most important seat of her worship. The names  of Athena’s earliest priestesses, the daughters of  Cecrops—Aglaurus,   Pandrosus,   and   Herse—  signify the bright air, the dew, and the rain.  Athena was important in agriculture. The  sowing season was opened in Attica by three  sacred rites of plowing, two of which honored  Athena as inventor of the plow. It was Athena  who taught man to attach oxen to the yoke, and  it was she who gave man the olive tree. Her chief  feast was the Panathenaea, which was originally  a harvest festival but later became a festival to  honor the intellectual gifts of Athena.  Athena’s birth story influenced Milton’s   Par -  adise Lost   (book 2), in which the poet describes  the birth of Sin from the head of Satan.  Among artworks inspired by Athena, one  of the best-known statues was the Palladium,  an image that was believed to have fallen from  heaven. A priestly family in Athens had charge  of the sacred image. It was believed that as long  as the statue was safe, the city of Athens was  safe. The Trojans had the statue earlier, and  the fall of Troy is sometimes attributed to its  removal, either by Odysseus and Diomedes or  by Aeneas when he left the city. Athens, Argos,  and Rome all claimed to have the real statue.  Matthew Arnold’s poem “Palladium” contains  the lines:  And when it fails, fight as we will, we die;  And while it lasts, we cannot wholly end.  Another famous image, contained in the Par -  thenon, was the gold-and-ivory statue by Phi -  dias, of which we have only small copies. Another  statue by Phidias, a 30-foot bronze of Athena the  warrior, stood by the Propylaea, the great marble  gateway at the west end of the Acropolis.  In works of art Athena is usually portrayed  with a shield and a spear and holding the bleed -  ing head of Medusa. The olive, the cock, the  owl (late classical times), the crow, and the ser -  pent were sacred to her. Among Athena’s epi -  thets were Athena Polias (of the city), Poliatas  (keeper of the city), Ergane (worker) as patron -  ess of workers in the decorative arts, Athena  Leitis (goddess of beauty), Paeonia (healer), Athena (Minerva)   26   Athena  Athena Repressing the Fury of Achilles  (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 144 ===
Athena Zosteria (girder) when she armed for  battle,   Athena   Anemotis   (of   the   winds)   as  goddess   of   winds   and   rains,   Promachorma  (protector of the anchorage), Pronaea (of the  foretemple), Pronoia (forethought), Xenia (hos -  pitable), Larisaea (of Larisa), Ophthalmitis (of  the eye), Cissaea (ivy phasium), Aeantis (Aja -  cian), Aethyia (Gannet), Agoraea (of Hippola),  Athena Nike (victory) for her special temple on  the Acropolis at Athens, Parthenon (virgin or  maiden), and Athena Promachus (champion),  which inspired the statue by Phidias. Among  the myths associated with Athena are the giv -  ing of the magic bridle to Bellerophon, helping  Perseus kill Medusa, teaching Argus to build  the ship   Argo,   teaching Epeius to build the  wooden horse (she sided with the Greeks), giv -  ing dragon’s teeth to Cadmus and Aeetes, and  helping Heracles, Diomedes, Odysseus, and  Tydeus. Athena appears in Homer, Vergil, the  Homeric Hymns, Pausanias, Ovid, Aeschylus,  Sophocles,   and   in   English   literature   often,  though generally under the Roman form of her  name, Minerva.  See also:   aeneas; diomedes; metis; minerva;  oceanus; odysseus; olympian gods; palla -  dium; prometheus  Atlacamanc   In   Aztec   mythology,   a   storm  god, often identified as the male counterpart of  Chalchihuitlicue, the Aztec storm goddess.  See also:   chalchihuitlicue  Atlantes   In the Charlemagne cycle of leg -  ends, a wizard who educated Ruggiero in all of  the manly arts. He appears in Ariosto’s   Orlando  Furioso.  See also:   charlemagne; roland  Atlantis   In European legend, an island that  was destroyed by a tidal wave. It is possible  that the legend of Atlantis was a recollection  of the destruction of the island of Thera, now  Santorina, which had a volcanic eruption about  1450   b.c.e.   and destroyed Knossos, as well as  leaving ash on eastern Crete. Supposedly, the  island of Atlantis had attempted to enslave  its neighbors but was defeated by Athens and  then destroyed by a tidal wave. The idea of an  ideal island still fascinates many, and Atlantis  is popular in contemporary folklore. Plato, in  his   Timaeus,   says the story was told to Solon in  Egypt. Seneca’s   Medea   also cites Atlantis in a  chorus, though he does not use the name.  Atlas   (he   who   dares   or   suffers)   In   Greek  mythology,   son   of   the   Titan   Iapetus   and  Clymene   (or   Aisa);   brother   of   Menoetius,  Prometheus, and Epimetheus. Atlas was a Titan  who sided with the Titans against Zeus and was  condemned by Zeus to stand in the west hold -  ing up the sky on his shoulders. His burden was  relieved by Heracles while Atlas fetched for  Heracles the Golden Apples of the Hesperides.  In one early myth Atlas was visited by Perseus  and was inhospitable. Perseus turned him into  stone   by   showing   him   the   Gorgon’s   head.  The stone became Mount Atlas in northwest -  ern Africa. Homer makes Atlas the father of  Calypso. Other accounts say the Pleiades are  his daughters. Because he was associated with  the sky, it was believed during the Middle Ages  that Atlas had taught man astrology. A book  of maps is called an atlas because the figure of  Atlas with the world on his shoulders was used  by the 16th-century mapmaker Mercator on  the title page of his book.  Atlantiades (offspring of Atlas) was a pat -  ronymic   of   Hermes,   the   Pleiades,   and   the  Hesperides. The seven daughters of Atlas, the  Pleiades, were Alcyone, Celaeno, Electra, Maia,  Merope, Sterope or Asterope, and Taygete.  Atlas appears or is mentioned in Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 4), Hesiod’s   Theogony,   and Ovid’s   Meta -  morphoses   (book 4). Heinrich Heine’s poem on  Atlas was set to music by Franz Schubert. The  Titan also appears in Rockefeller Center, New  York, in a rather gross statue.  See also:   aeneid, the ; alcyone; calypso;  celaeno; electra; golden apples of the hes -  perides; gorgon; heracles; maia; ovid; per -  seus; pleiades; prometheus; titan  Atlas    2 

=== 페이지 145 ===
Atlatonan   In Aztec mythology, goddess “of  the leprous and maimed,” according to Fray  Diego Durán in his   Book of the Gods and Rites   (c.  1576), dealing with Aztec mythology and ritual.  She was one of the wives of Tezcatlipoca.  See also:   tezcatlipoca  Atlaua   (master of waters)   In Aztec mythol -  ogy, a water god, also associated with arrows.  Armed with reed arrows he emerges as a Quetzal  bird, the Aztec symbol of regeneration.  See also:   phoenix  Atman   (Sanskrit root   an,   “to breathe”)   In  Hinduism, the essence of life, often translated  as soul, spirit, ego, world spirit, or world soul.  Atnatu   In   Australian   mythology,   self-cre -  ated god who punished some of his children  by casting them out of heaven through a hole  in the sky.  Atreus   (fearless)   In Greek mythology, king  of Mycenae; son of Pelops and Hippodameia;  brother of Alcathous, Astydameia, Chrysippus,  Copreus, Lysidice, Nicippe, Pittheus, Thyestes,  and   Troezen;   married   to   Aerope;   father   of  Agamemnon, Menelaus, and Anaxibia; grand -  son of Tantalus.  Atreus, with the help of his brother Thyes -  tes, murdered his step-brother Chrysippus. To  escape the wrath of their father, the two took  refuge with their brother-in-law Sthenelus, king  of Mycenae, who gave them the kingdom of  Media. Eurystheus, the brother of Sthenelus,  was killed in a battle, and his kingdom, Argos,  was taken over by Atreus, who ruled with the  scepter made by the god Hephaestus and given  him by his father, Pelops. Atreus’s first wife was  Cleola, who died in childbirth after delivering  a son, Plisthenes. Atreus then married Aerope.  Their children were Agamemnon, Menelaus,  and Anaxibia. Hermes had given Atreus a horned   2    Atlatonan  Perseus and Atlas   (Wilhelm Bauer)

=== 페이지 146 ===
lamb with a golden fleece which was to be sacri -  ficed to Artemis. Instead Atreus killed the lamb  and had it stuffed and mounted. He proclaimed  that whoever possessed the golden lamb pos -  sessed the right to the throne. Thyestes, with the  aide of Aerope, conspired against Atreus and stole  the lamb. Thyestes was thereupon acknowledged  king. Atreus then made a bargain with Thy -  estes that if he, Atreus, could cause the sun to  reverse its path in the heavens, his throne would  be restored to him. With the aid of Zeus and  Eris the feat was accomplished, and Atreus was  restored. This, however, did not please Thyestes,  and he arranged for the murder of Plisthenes,  Atreus’s son. To avenge Plisthenes’ death, Atreus  killed one of Thyestes’ sons and invited Thyestes  to a banquet. After he had eaten, Atreus told him  he had eaten the flesh of his own child. Thyestes  then placed a curse on the house of Atreus and  went into exile, where he met and raped Pelopia,  not knowing she was his daughter. A famine  in the kingdom had followed Thyestes’ curse,  and and an oracle told Atreus he must bring  back Thyestes in order to end it. Atreus cast the  unfaithful Aerope into the sea and went in search  of Thyestes. He came upon Pelopia at about the  time she was to deliver Thyestes’ son, Aegisthus,  whom she exposed to die on a mountain. Atreus  rescued Aegisthus and brought him up as his  own son. Years later Atreus succeeded in bring -  ing Thyestes back and putting him in prison. He  then instructed Aegisthus to kill Thyestes. When  Thyestes discovered that Aegisthus was the son  of Pelopia, he knew that he was the boy’s father.  He revealed his identity to his son, and the two  plotted against and killed Atreus.  The tale of the House of Atreus, made of  the stories of Agamemnon, Menelaus, Clytem -  nestra, Helen, Aegisthus, Orestes, Electra, and  Iphigenia, inspired eight of the 33 surviving  Greek tragedies and also inspired modern dra -  matists and poets such as Eugene O’Neill and  T. S. Eliot.  See   also:   aegisthus;   aerope;   agamem -  non; atreus; hephaestus; hermes; menelaus;  pelops; zeus  Attila   (little   father)   (404–453)   In   medieval  history and legend, king of the Huns, known as  the Scourge of God, who was stopped by Pope  Leo I. Attila and his army ravaged the eastern  Roman Empire for several years, then made  peace   with   Emperor   Theodosius.   The   Hun  then turned toward the western empire and was  defeated by Aetius, the Roman general, in 451.  Undaunted, Attila then invaded northern Italy  as far as the Po River. He was met by Pope Leo  I, who came to plead with the invader to spare  Rome from destruction. To the amazement of  everyone, Attila removed his army. When asked  why, he said, “While Pope Leo was speaking, I  distinctly saw two shining beings of venerable  aspect, and manifestly not of this earth, standing  by his side. They had flaming swords in their  hands, and menaced me with death if I refused  to withdraw the army.” The two beings, accord -  ing to the account of Damasus in his   Lives of the  Popes,   were St. Peter and St. Paul. But the truth is  that Attila agreed to leave Italy in return for the  Princess Honoria and her vast dowry, according  to Gibbon in his   Decline and Fall of the Roman  Empire.   Tradition has it that he was murdered  by his German wife on their wedding night. The  medieval legend inspired Raphael’s fresco in the  Stanza d’Eliodoro in the Vatican Museum,   The  Encounter of Attila and Leo I,   Delacroix’s mural  Attila Tramples Italy and the Arts,   and William  von Kaulbach’s   Hunnenschlacht   (The Battle of the  Huns), which in turn inspired Franz Liszt’s sym -  phonic poem of the same name. Attila appears  in Corneille’s play   Attila   and Verdi’s opera   Attila.  He also appears as the character Etzel in the  medieval   epic   Nibelungenlied,   in   which   he   is  married to Kriemhild and assists her in taking  revenge on her family for murdering her hus -  band Siegfried. He also appears in the earlier  work,   Volsunga Saga,   in which he is called Atli.  See   also:   saints;   niebelungenlied ;   vol -  sunga saga  Attis   (Atys,   Attes)   (luckless)   Phrygian   god  of death and resurrection, annually mourned  and rejoiced over at a festival in spring. Attis  Attis    2 

=== 페이지 147 ===
was   a   handsome   young   shepherd   who   was  loved by the goddess Cybele, mother of the  gods.   Cybele’s   chief   shrine   was   at   Phrygia,  the name given to a large area in ancient Asia  Minor. Some myths say Attis was the son of  Cybele, though most texts give Nana, a virgin,  as his mother. She conceived him by putting  a ripe almond or pomegranate in her bosom.  His death, however, was the major motif of his  myth. In one account he was killed by a boar.  According   to   a   variant   text,   Attis   castrated  himself under a pine tree and bled to death on  the spot. Worship of Attis and Cybele spread  to Rome in the second century   b.c.e.   Attis, in  the form of a pine log covered with violets,  was annually mourned, as were Tammuz and  Adonis, at a spring festival, part of which con -  sisted   of   self-mutilation   of   Cybele’s   priests.  The Roman poet Catullus, in his   Carmina,  tells of one priest, named after the god, who  castrated himself and then lamented his rash  act. Catullus reflects the rites in such a way that  the priest of the poem is literally possessed with  a religious frenzy of unbridled proportions,  which is so strong that it compels him to com -  mit the castration. It is only after the heat of  the moment has sufficiently subsided that the  priest realizes the effect of his actions.  See also:   almond; pomegranate; tammuz  Audhumla   (Audhumbla,   Audumla)   (rich,  hornless cow)   In Norse mythology, the pri -  meval cow at creation, formed from vapors.  She fed the primeval giant Ymir and lived by  licking the salt from stones. On the first day she  licked the stones the hairs of a man appeared.  On the second day a human head appeared.  On the third day “an entire man appeared, who  was endowed with beauty, agility and power,”  according to the   Prose Edda.   The man was Bur,  father of Bor, who married the giantess Bestla;  she bore three gods, Odin, Vili, and Ve. A  similar pattern is found in Tacitus’s   Germania  (98   c.e. ), where he traces the origin of the  Germans to an earth-born god Tuisco and his  son Mannus, who then had three sons.  See also:   prose edda ; ymir  Auge   (Auga,   Augea)   (radiance)   In   Greek  mythology, a goddess of childbirth, an Arcadian  princess, priestess of Athena; daughter of Aleus,  king of Tegea, and Naera. She was raped by  Heracles and bore him a son, Telephus. Auge’s  father, Aleus, did not believe Heracles to be  the father of her child and ordered Nauplius  to drown Auge and expose the baby on Mount  Parthenius to die. Instead of drowning Auge,  Nauplius sold her to King Teuthras, who adopt -  ed her as his daughter. Telephus was rescued by  a shepherd and reached manhood. When King  Teuthras’s kingdom of Mysia was invaded, it was  Telephus, directed to Mysia by an oracle, who  drove out the invaders. His mother’s identity  was then made known to him by Heracles.  See also:   athena; heracles  Augeas   (bright   ray)   In   Greek   mythology,  son   of   Helios   (or   Phorbas)   and   Hyramina;  brother of Actor and Tiphys; the king of the  Epeians in Elis and one of the Argonauts.  He possessed 3,000 sheep and oxen, among  which were 12 white bulls consecrated to the  sun. The cattle were blessed by the gods and  never sickened or died of disease, and they  were extremely fertile. They were kept in a  stable that had not been cleaned for 30 years.  Heracles’ sixth labor, given him by Eurystheus,  was to clean the stable. Augeas agreed to pay  Heracles one-tenth of his herd if he fulfilled  the task in one day. Heracles diverted the Rivers  Alpheus and Peneus to wash away the dirt, but  Augeas refused to pay, so Heracles killed him  and all of his sons, except for Phyleus, whom he  made ruler of the kingdom. The term “Augean  stables” is now applied to anything filthy.  See also:   argonauts; helios; heracles  Augures   (watchers   of   birds)   In   ancient  Roman   cult,   a   group   of   priests   established,  according to tradition, by Romulus. Their func -  tion,   important   in   Roman   life,   was   not   to  predict the future but, by observing natural  signs, to determine if the gods approved of a  specific action. They wore a state dress with  a purple border and carried a staff without   30   Audhumla

=== 페이지 148 ===
knots and curled at the top. Roman augury was  based chiefly on written works such as the   Libri  Augurales,   a book on the techniques of augury,  and the   Commentarii Augurales,   a collection of  answers given to inquiries of the Roman sen -  ate. Magistrates would commission augurs to  provide answers to specific questions by observ -  ing omens of birds. They would consecrate  the observation place with the following rite:  Immediately after midnight or at dawn, the  augur, in the presence of the magistrate, selected  an elevated spot with a view as wide as pos -  sible. Taking his station, he drew with his staff  two straight lines crossing one another—one  north to south, the other east to west. He then  enclosed this cross in a rectangle, forming four  smaller rectangles. The augur then spoke the  ritual   words   consecrating   the   marked   space.  This space within the rectangle as well as the  space upward to the sky was called the   templum.  At the point of the intersection in the center  of the rectangle was erected the   tabernaculum,  which was a square tent with its entrance look -  ing south. Here the augur, facing south, sat  down, asked the gods for a sign according to a  prescribed formula, and waited for an answer.  Complete quiet, a clear sky, and an absence of  wind were necessary conditions for the rite. The  least noise was sufficient to disturb it, unless  noise was an omen of terror, called   diroe.  The Romans regarded signs on the left side  as propitious omens, signs on the right side as  unlucky. The east was the region of light, and  the west was that of darkness. The reverse was  the case in ancient Greece, where the observer  looked northward.  The augur watched the birds for omens.  Eagles and vultures gave signs by their manner  of flying; ravens, owls, and crows by their cry as  well as their flight. Some bird species were held  sacred to particular gods, and the appearance  of those birds were omens of good or evil. The  augur’s report was expressed in the words “the  birds allow it” or “on another day,” meaning  postponement  See also:   crow; raven; owl; romulus and  remus  Augustine,   St.   (venerable)   (354–430)   In  Christian legend, bishop of Hippo in Africa;  Doctor of the Church; author of   The City of  God,   a defense of Christianity against pagan phi -  losophy, and an autobiography,   The Confessions.  Feast, 28 August.  Augustine’s   father   was   a   pagan,   but   his  mother, Monica, was a Christian. As a young  man Augustine devoted his life to the pursuit of  pleasure (he had numerous mistresses) and the  study of philosophy. As he was interested only  in some heretical sects, his mother prayed for  his conversion to Catholic Christianity. Even -  tually, her prayers were answered; Augustine  was baptized by St. Ambrose, bishop of Milan.  The most famous legend regarding the saint  is called the vision of St. Augustine and is  frequently portrayed in art. While Augustine  was busy writing his   Discourse on the Trinity,   he  wandered along the seashore lost in meditation.  Suddenly he saw a child who had dug a hole in  the sand and was bringing water from the sea to  fill it. Augustine stopped and asked the boy what  he was doing. The boy replied that he wanted to  empty into the hole all of the water of the sea.  Agustine, St.    3   St. Augustine

=== 페이지 149 ===
“Impossible,” the saint replied to the child.  “Not more impossible than for thee, O  Augustine, to explain the mystery of the Trin -  ity,” the child answered.  St. Augustine is often portrayed in his epis -  copal vestments carrying a book and a heart,  symbol of his love and learning. Sometimes he  is shown as a young man, before his conver -  sion, reading or disputing with his mother, St.  Monica. He is also sometimes painted in the  black habit of the Augustinian Order, which  legend credits him with founding.  See also:   ambrose, st.; monica, st.  Augustine of Canterbury, St.   (venerable)  (Died 605)   In Christian legend, first arch -  bishop of Canterbury. Feast, 26 May.  The legend of St. Augustine of Canterbury is  told in St. Bede’s   Ecclesiastical History of the English  People.   Augustine was sent by Pope St. Gregory  the Great as a missionary to Kent in England.  The queen, Bertha, was already a Christian,  but her husband, Ethelbert, was not. However,  Ethelbert permitted Augustine and his follow -  ers to enter Canterbury, which they did, singing  praises and carrying an image of Christ. The king  was so moved that he consented to be baptized  along with his people. The saint then wished  to speak with others on the island, the Britons,  who had been converted to Christianity earlier  but followed different customs from those of  the Roman Church. A meeting was held during  which they debated the date of Easter and some  other customs. To prove that God was on his side  in the matter, a blind man was brought in and  immediately “received sight, and Augustine was  by all declared the preacher of the Divine Truth.”  However, the Celtics, or Britons, said they had to  get the “consent and leave of their people,” and  they asked for a second conference. This was  arranged, and seven Celtic bishops arrived.  “If he is a man of God, follow him,” a holy  man said.  “How shall we know that?” the bishops  asked.  “If at your approach he shall rise up to  you,” he said, “hear him submissively, being  assured that he is the servant of Christ; but if  he shall despise you, and not rise up to you,  whereas you are more in number, let him also  be despised by you.”  When they arrived, Augustine remained in  his chair, and the conference fell apart. Augus -  tine, however, had the last word. He cursed the  group, saying they would fall under the judg -  ment of death. This prediction came true after  St. Augustine’s death, for some 2,000 monks  who followed the Celtic church were killed by  Ethilfrid, king of the pagan Northern English.  In Christian art Augustine is shown either  as a Benedictine with a staff or as a bishop with  a pallium, cope, and miter.  See also:   bede the venerable, st.; easter;  gregory the great  Augustus   (magnified,   sanctified)   Honorary  Latin title given in 27   b.c.e.   to Octavian, great  nephew and adopted son of Julius Caesar. The  title was not hereditary but was taken by suc -  ceeding emperors as bestowed by the senate. The  title of Augustus was reserved exclusively for the  emperor, but the corresponding feminine style  of Augusta was assumed by great ladies of the  imperial house. The title was used by Christian  emperors   of   the   Holy   Roman   Empire.   The  Greek translation of the title was Sebastos, holy.  Aunyain-á   In   the   mythology   of   the   Tupi  Indians of Brazil, an evil magician who fed on  children. From his body iguanas, lizards, and  other animals were produced. Aunyain-á had  tusks like a boar’s. The people, wishing to rid the  land of him, climbed up a creeper vine to heav -  en, knowing he would follow. When Aunyain-á  began climbing, a parrot flew ahead of him and  gnawed through the vine, so that Aunyain-á fell  back to earth. From his arms and legs caymans  (a kind of alligator) and iguanas grew; from his  fingers and toes, other lizards. What was left of  his body was then eaten by vultures.  Aurora   (dawn)   In   Roman   mythology,   the  dawn; daughter of Hyperion and Thia (or Thea);  married to Astraeus; mother of the wind and the   32   Augustine of Canterbury, St.

=== 페이지 150 ===
stars; called Eos by the Greeks. Aurora’s chariot,  drawn by white horses, raced across the heavens  and caused the constellations to disappear at her  approach. The subject is found frequently in  Baroque paintings, including works of Carracci,  Guercino,   and   Guido   Reni.   In   literature,  Shakespeare refers to the dawn in   A Midsummer  Night’s Dream   as “Aurora’s harbinger,” (3.2.380),  and Spenser in   The Faerie Queene   (book 1) writes:  “And fayre Aurora from the deawy bed / Of  aged Thitone gan herselfe to reare.” Thitone  is Spenser’s spelling of Tithonus, the old lover  of the goddess. Ancient references are found in  Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 10), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  6), and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 3).  See also:   aeneid, the;   astraeus;   odyssey,  the;   ovid  Ausonia   An ancient name for Italy, derived  from Auson, a son of the Greek hero Odysseus  and Calypso. In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 3) Aeneas  speaks of Ausonia.  See   also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   calypso;  odysseus  Auster   In Roman mythology, the southwest  wind; called Notus in Greek mythology.  Autolycus   (very   wolf)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, a son of Hermes and Chione or Philonis;  father of Anticlea; maternal grandfather of  Odysseus. Autolycus was a noted thief, having  the gift of being able to change his form and  that of his stolen goods at will. Autolycus stole  the cattle of Sisyphus, who, after he found the  cattle, raped Anticlea, Autolycus’s daughter.  Autolycus   also   stole   the   cattle   of   Eurytus  of Oechalia. After changing their color, he  sold them to Heracles. In   The Winter’s Tale  Shakespeare uses the name Autolycus for the  rogue in the play. Autolycus is also the name  of one of the Argonauts, cited in Homer’s  Odyssey   (book 14) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 1).  See   also:   hermes;   heracles;   odysseus;  odyssey, the;   sisyphus  Automedon   (independent ruler)   In Greek  mythology, a hero, son of Diores; he sailed for  Troy with 10 ships. He was Achilles’ charioteer  and later Pyrrhus’s. Automedon is mentioned  in Homer’s   Iliad   (book 9) and Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 2).  See also:   achilles;   aeneid, the; iliad, the  Autonoe   (with mind of her own)   In Greek  mythology, daughter of Cadmus and Harmonia;  sister of Agave, Illyrius, Ino, Polydorus, and  Semele. She was the wife of Aristaeus and moth -  er of Actaeon and Macris. Autonoe was driven  Autonoe    33  Aurora

=== 페이지 151 ===
insane, along with her other sisters, for their  ill treatment of Semele. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 3) tells the tale.  See   also:   aristaeus; cadmus; harmonia;  ovid  Av   (Ab)   Fifth month in the cultic calendar  of the ancient Babylonians. Av corresponds to  parts of July and August. The month is also  sacred in Judaism, often being called Menahem  (comforter). As comfort must arise from despair,  according to Jewish tradition, so in the ninth  month, during which the Temple was destroyed  by the Babylonians under Nebuchadnezzar in  586   b.c.e.   and the Second Temple under the  Roman Titus in 70   c.e.,   the Messiah will be  born. On that date a fast is held, ornaments  are removed from synagogues, and the Book  of Lamentations is read. The commemoration  has been used in recent times in memory of the  Jews killed by the Nazis.  See also:   nebuchadnezzar  Avalokiteshvara   (Avalokita)   (he   who   hears  the groanings of the world)   In Buddhism the  Bodhisattva who appears in any appropriate  form to help suffering beings. In China and  Japan he has many female forms. In Mahayana  Buddhism he is either one of the five Dhyani-  Bodhisattvas who is noted for his compassion  or a Bodhisattva in his own right.  Avalokiteshvara appears in numerous forms  throughout Buddhism. In the form of the Bod -  hisattva of Infinite Compassion with 11 heads  and 8 or 1,000 arms, he looks in every direction  to save all creatures. The nine heads in three  tiers have a benign expression, the 10th head  shows anger, and the 11th is that of Amitabha,  the father of Avalokiteshvara, shown with a  cintamani,   a sacred pearl. Some of his hands are  in prayer; others hold a lotus, a vase of ambro -  sia, a rosary, a bow, and the   cakra,   Wheel of  the Dharma. One hand, the lower right, is the  mudra   gesture of charity.  Another well-known icon is that of Avalok -  iteshvara as the Four-Armed Bodhisattva of  Infinite Compassion. One pair of hands is in  the gesture of prayer. The upper right hand  holds a rosary; the upper left, a lotus. The top  of the head is surmounted by a representation  of Amitabha, his spiritual father. An antelope  skin drapes the left shoulder.  See also:   ambrosia; amitabha; bodhisat -  tva; dalai lama; dhyani-bodhisattvas; kuan-  yin; lotus; mahayana; mudra  Avalon   (island of apples)   In Arthurian legend  Elysium, where, according to some accounts,  King Arthur still lives. He was transported there  by Morgan le Fay. Ogier the Dane and Oberon  also held their courts on Avalon. Some scholars  believe Avalon is derived from Yns Afallach  (Avallon’s Island), the realm of the Celtic god  Avallach and land of the blessed dead.  See also:   arthur; oberon; ogier the dane  Avaricious   and   Envious,   The   Aesopic  fable found in various collections throughout  the world.  Two neighbors came before Zeus and asked  him to grant their hearts’ desire. One was full of  avarice, and the other was eaten up with envy. To  punish them both, Zeus granted that each might  have whatever he wished for himself, but only on  condition that his neighbor had twice as much.  The avaricious man prayed to have a room full  of gold. No sooner said than done, but all of  his joy was turned to grief when he found that  his neighbor had two rooms full of the precious  metal. Then came the turn of the envious man,  who could not bear to think that his neighbor had  any joy at all. So he prayed that he might have  one of his own eyes put out, by which means his  neighbor would be made totally blind.  Moral:   Vices are their own punishment.  This is one of the most popular Aesopic  fables. It occurs in the Indian collection   The  Panchatantra   and in various collections of the  Middle Ages. It is told by Hans Sachs, the Ger -  man poet and dramatist of the 16th century, and  by John Gower, the English poet and friend of  Chaucer, in his   Confessio Amantis   (book 2:2).  See also:   aesopic fables;   panchatantra ;  zeus   34   Av

=== 페이지 152 ===
avatar   (a descent)   In Hindu mythology, the  incarnation   of   a   god   in   some   form,   often  applied to Vishnu.  See also:   vishnu  Avernus   (without   birds?)   In   Greek   and  Roman mythology, a deep sulfurous lake north -  west of Roman Puteoli (Pozzouli), believed by  the ancients to be one of the entrances to the  underworld, the land of the dead. No birds were  ever seen in its area. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6)  tells how the hero Aeneas was told by the Sibyl  of Cumae to enter the underworld through  Avernus. It is still called Lago Averno today.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   sibyl  Avesta   (knowledge, wisdom, or injunction)  Sacred book of ancient Persia (Iran), contain -  ing the teachings of the prophet Zarathustra  as well as pre-Zoroastrian myths from Persian  mythology.  The Avesta proper consists of the following:  Gathas,   a collection of hymns, some ascribed to  the prophet Zarathustra and others believed  to have been written earlier and adapted for  the work.  Yashts,   hymns to the individual gods, as well as  some material on earlier Persian mythology.  Yasna,   liturgical texts in prose and verse.  Vendidad,   a miscellaneous collection of writings  in prose.  The original Avesta is believed to have been  lost during the time of Alexander the Great  (fourth century   b.c.e. ). From the third century  to   the   sixth   century   c.e.   magi   (Zoroastrian  priests) compiled a collection of sacred writings  consisting of some 21   nasks,   or books, of which  only a small part contained material from the  original Avesta .   The Zend   Avesta ,   the term  usually applied to the sacred writings of Persia,  is actually a zend (commentary) on the parts of  the original Avesta ,   containing quotes from the  original lost text.  See also:   zarathustra  Awonawilona   (maker and container of all)  In North American Indian mythology (Zuni),  bisexual   creator   deity.   In   the   beginning  Awonawilona was alone in a dark void, “though  outward in space,” according to   Report of the  Bureau of American Ethology   (Cushing), “where -  by mists of increase, steams potent of growth,  were evolved and uplifted. Then Awonawilona  became   the   sun   and   mist   formed   creating  Awitelin Tsita (four-fold containing Mother-  earth) and Apoyan Ta’chu (all-covering Father-  sky).” The two then had sexual intercourse and  “terrestrial life was conceived; whence began  all beings of earth, men and the creatures.”  The first humans on earth were strange beings.  They had adapted to life within the womb and  thus had scales, short tales, huge owl eyes, large  ears, and webbed hands and feet. They only  adjusted to life on earth very slowly. Among the  first humans was Poshaiyangkyo, who led the  people from the darkness to the light.  See also:   mawu lisa; yin and yang  Ayesha   (c. 610–677)   In Islamic legend, favor -  ite wife of Muhammad, married to the prophet  when she was a child. At one time she was sus -  pected of being unfaithful to Muhammad, but  the prophet defended her honor. He ultimately  died in her arms. At his death she helped her  father, Abu-Bakr, to become the first caliph, and  he reigned for two years. She was defeated in 656,  when she tried to gain more power from Ali.  See also:   ali; muhammad  Ayida   In Haitian voodoo, the rainbow snake,  female counterpart of Danbhalah Houé-Do. A  form of the goddess Erzulie Ayida is also called  Aida Wédo.  Aymon, The Four Sons of   In medieval  French legend, the sons of Aymon: Renaud  (Rinaldo), Alard, Guichard, and Richard, all of  whom were knighted by Charlemagne. They  appear in the medieval French romance   The  Four Sons of Aymon   as well as Boilardo’s   Orlando  Innamorato,   Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso,   Tasso’s  Aymon, The Four Sons of    35

=== 페이지 153 ===
Rinaldo,   and   Jerusalem Delivered.   Their story  also formed the basis for many chapbooks.  See also:   chapbook; charlemagne; rinaldo;  roland  Aynia   In Celtic folklore, the most powerful  fairy in Ulster, Ireland, thought to be derived  from Anu, the goddess who presided over pros -  perity and abundance. There are many stories  about Aynia. The best known is about Maurice,  the Earl of Desmond, who fell in love with her  by seizing her cloak and making her his bride.  Their son was Gerald, who still lives, accord -  ing to legend, in the waters of Lough Gur. He  reappears every seven years to ride around it on  a shining white horse. Sometimes he appears as  a goose swimming on the lake.  See also:   anu  Azaca   Mede   In   Haitian   voodoo,   the   loa  (deified   spirit   of   the   dead)   of   gardens   and  mountains, who is offered goats in sacrifice.  Often the goats are black.  See also:   loa  Azadovskii, Mark Konstantinovich   (1888–  1945)   Russian folklorist whose expeditions in  1913–1915 took him to the Amur and Lena  Rivers in Siberia, where he gathered materials on  folk narratives from the local peasants. He is best  known for his collection of tales told by Natalia  Osipovna Vinokurova, which he published and  also described in a 1926 German publication  called   Eine   sibirische   Märchenerzählerin.   This  study of a Siberian tale teller has been repeatedly  praised by folktale scholars as a pioneering and  exemplary work. Azadovskii saw storytelling as a  complex act that cannot be fully appreciated on  the basis of the study of written records or “texts”  of orally transmitted tales. He viewed tales as  expressive manifestations of the personalities of  the communicators and the surroundings within  which the narrators learn and continue to prac -  tice their art. He speaks of determining “those  formative forces which govern the generation  of a folktale,” and discovering the underlying  “artistic purpose” of storytelling. Thus, for him  the study of narrative traditions was “inseparably  bound up with the study of the creative indi -  viduality of the narrator.” To demonstrate his  ideas, Azadovskii focused on the tales told to him  by his primary informant, N. O. Vinokurova.  Later he became particularly interested in the  interrelations between oral and written tradi -  tions. Unfortunately, his work remains largely  unknown outside the Russian-speaking world.  Azariel   (God has helped)   In Jewish folklore,  angel of the earth waters, invoked by fishermen  to obtain a good catch.  Azazel   In the Bible, O.T., a scapegoat, an  evil spirit or demon. In Leviticus (16:8) the  high priest Aaron casts lots “upon two goats,  one lot for the Lord and the other lot for  Azazel.” The one chosen for the Lord was  sacrificed as an offering for sins, and Azazel  was driven into the desert. Originally, Azazel  was a Semitic satyr or god of flocks who was  incorporated into Hebrew ritual.  In medieval Jewish folklore Azazel is cred -  ited with being one of the angels who came  down from heaven to have intercourse with  the daughters of men, teaching men witchcraft  and warfare.  In Islam, Elbis (the equivalent of Satan) is  considered to be a form of Azazel. In Islamic  legend, Azazel is a   jenin   (supernatural being)  of the desert. When God commanded him to  worship Adam, Azazel replied “Why should the  son of fire fall down before the son of clay?”  God then cast him from heaven and changed  his name to Elbis, which means “despair.”  In   Paradise   Lost   (book   1:534)   Milton  describes Azazel as a “Cherub Tall” who holds  the “glittering staff” of the fallen angels. In Col -  lin de Plancy’s   Dictionnaire Infernal,   Azazel is  portrayed as a fat, naked man with horns hold -  ing a pitchfork-type banner on which a frog is  shown. In his other hand he holds a goat. The  English Pre- Raphaelite artist William Holman  Hunt painted   The Scapegoat,   which portrays the  goat with photographic accuracy.  See also:   iblis; satan; satyr   36   Aynia

=== 페이지 154 ===
Azeto    3   The Angel of Death   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 155 ===
Azeto   In Haitian voodoo, an evil loa (dei -  fied spirit of the dead), either a male or female  werewolf or vampire.  See also:   loa; vampire; werewolf  Azhi Dahaka   (Asi Dahak, Az-i Dahak, Dahhak)  In Persian mythology, archdemon with three  heads, six eyes, and three jaws, who is defeated  by the hero Traetaona.  Azhi Dahaka is under the control of the evil  spirit, Ahriman. His greatest battle was with the  hero Traetaona. The two fought in Varena (the  heavens). Traetaona clubbed Azhi Dahaka in the  head, neck, and heart, but the demon refused to  die. Finally, Traetaona took a sword and plunged  it into the monster’s breast. Out of the wound  came a host of ugly animals: snakes, toads,  scorpions, lizards, and frogs. Frightened that  more of such animals were inside the demon,  Traetaona took the body and imprisoned it in  Mount Demavend. Here the demon is to stay  for a time, then he will escape to cause havoc in  the world until he is slain by the hero Keresaspa,  who will usher in a new world order.  In Firdusi’s epic poem   Shah Namah   the  character of the evil king, Zahhak, is modeled  on that of Azhi Dahaka.  See also:   ahrlman; keresaspa  Azrael   (Izrail) (whom God helps)   In Jewish  and Islamic mythology, angel of death, often  identified with Gabriel in Jewish writings and  with Raphael in Islamic works. He will be the  last to die.  Azrael keeps a roll containing the name  of every person born in the world. The time  of death and whether the person is saved or  damned is not known to Azrael. When the day  of death approaches, Allah lets a leaf inscribed  with the person’s name drop from his majestic  throne. Azrael reads the name and within 40  days must separate the soul from the body.  If the person makes a struggle, Azrael flies  back to the throne of Allah and informs him.  Then Allah gives him an apple from paradise  on which the   basmala,   the Name of God, “the  merciful and compassionate,” is written. When  the person reads the Name of God, he then  gives up his life to the angel of death.  However, if the person is an unbeliever and  lost, Azrael tears the soul from the body in a  rough manner. The gate of heaven closes, and  the person is cast into hell.  Azrael is variously described in Islamic writ -  ings. In general he has some 70,000 feet and  4,000 wings. He has four faces and as many eyes  and tongues as there are men in the world.  Longfellow, in one of his metrical poems  included in   Tales of a Wayside Inn,   has a Span -  ish Jew tell a tale of Azrael and King Solomon.  The king is entertaining a “learned man” who  is a rajah. As they walk, a white figure in the  twilight air is gazing intently at the man. The  rajah asks Solomon:  What is yon shape, that, pallid as the dead,  Is watching me, as if he sought to trace  In the dim light the features of my face?  The king calmly tells his guest that it is the  angel of death, Azrael. The man then asks Solo -  mon to get him as far away from Azrael as pos -  sible. The king, with his magic ring, sends him  off to India. The angel of death asks Solomon  who the man was who left so suddenly. The  king gives Azrael the name, and Azrael thanks  the king for sending the man off to India, since  he was on his way “to seek him there.”  See also:   allah; gabriel; raphael; solomon  Aztlán   The Mexica’s mythical place of origin  and home to Huitzilopochtli and his mother,  Coatlicue. The land on which they lived was a  lush island, and their humble food of corn kept  them from ever experiencing illness; indeed,  they never died but could move from youth  to old age and back again. When their deity  Huitzilopochtli led them away from Aztlán, the  ground was covered over by briars, and they  were wounded by the stones and the prickly  trees and bushes. They could never return to  their original home once they had left it.  See   also:   coatlicue;   huitzilopochtli;  mexica   3    Azeto

=== 페이지 156 ===
6   3   ba   (soul)   In Egyptian mythology, the soul, or  that part of a person that had eternal existence  after death, represented as a human-headed  bird. The   ba   was closely associated with the   ka,  a person’s double, and the   ib,   or heart, and con -  stituted one of the principles of a person’s life.  After death the   ba   was believed to visit its body  in the tomb. In the pyramids of Meroë open -  ings were left in the stone covering the apex so  that the   ba   might enter, and a ledge was placed  beneath each opening for the   ba   to stand on. A  small figure of the   ba   made of gold and inlaid  with some precious stones was placed on the  breast of the mummy in the hope of preserving  it from decay, because the ancient Egyptians  believed there was to be a final union of all  souls with their bodies.  See also:   ka  Baal   (Ba’al, Ball) (lord, owner, possessor)   In  Near   Eastern   mythology,   generic   name   for  numerous gods of rain, agriculture, and fertility.  Many Baals or Baalim, as the Old Tes -  tament calls them, were worshipped in the  ancient Near East. Usually a god was called  Baal when his worshippers had taken “pos -  session” or “ownership” of land by settling it.  Many place names in the Old Testament indi -  cate that a local form of Baal was worshipped  in the land, thus Baal-peor (Num. 25:3) and  Baal-hermon (Judg. 3:3). The influence of Baal  worship, with its fertility rites, left its mark on  the worship of the Hebrew deity Yahweh since  at one time the two gods were worshipped  together. Yahweh, however, eclipsed the wor -  ship of Baal, and the latter was denounced  by the later Hebrew prophets. Yet the titles  assigned to Baal were often also assigned to  Yahweh. Baal was “he who mounts the clouds,”  whereas Yahweh, the god of Jerusalem, was he  “who rideth upon the heaven” (Deut. 33:26).  Among the most famous Baals worshipped in  the Near East were Baal Berith, Baal-hermon,  Baal-macod, Baal-peor, Baalsamin, Baalzebub,  and Baal-zephon.  See also:   yahweh  Baba   Yaga   (Baba   Jaga)   (old   woman)   In  Russian folklore, cannibalistic ogress who kid -  naps children, then cooks and eats them. She is  the best known of all Slavic legendary charac -  ters. She is mostly malevolent, but sometimes  she is a benefactress. She is never portrayed as  a goddess, but in her earliest form she shows  similarity to the Great Goddess, the patron  goddess to women. Since the Christian era she  has been downgraded to witch status.  Baba Yaga usually lives in a hut that stands on  hens’ legs. Sometimes it faces the forest, some -  times the path, and sometimes it moves about  from place to place. In some Russian folktales  Baba Yaga’s hut is surrounded by a railing made  B

=== 페이지 157 ===
of sticks surmounted by human skulls, which  glow at night from candles placed inside them.  One Russian folktale, simply titled “Baba  Yaga,” tells of an evil stepmother who attempted  to have her daughter eaten by Baba Yaga. The  girl was saved when a magic comb thrown in  Baba Yaga’s path made it impossible for the  ogress to catch the girl as she escaped. In a vari -  ant tale, however, the girl was broken into little  pieces and placed in a basket.  Anatol   Liadov’s   short   symphonic   poem  Baba Yaga   deals with the ogress, as does one  section of Modest Moussorgsky’s   Pictures at an  Exhibition,   also titled “Baba Yaga,” originally  written for piano and transcribed for orchestra  by Maurice Ravel in 1923.  See also:   great goddess  Babe, the Blue Ox   In American folklore, a  giant ox, companion of Paul Bunyan. He creat -  ed Lake Michigan when he sank knee-deep into  solid rock. He died when he accidentally ate a  stove instead of the batch of hotcakes on it.  See also:   fakelore; paul bunyan  Babel, Tower of   (confusion)   In the Bible,  O.T., a ziggurat erected on the plains of Shinar  by the descendants of Noah when they reached  Babylonia. Genesis (11:1–9) says the plan was  to build a tower that would reach to heaven.  Yahweh, the Hebrew cult god, said “Go to,  let   us   go   down,   and   there   confound   their  language, that they may not understand one  another’s speech” (Gen. 11:7). This accounts  for the variety of languages in the world. The  zigguarat is believed to have been of the god  Marduk’s temple in Babylon, which consisted  of six square stages, one on top of the other, the  last with a small room for the god. Numerous  paintings on the subject exist. One of the most  famous is by Brueghel; another is by Marten  van Valckorborch.  See also:   marduk; yahweh  Babes   in   the   Wood   Popular title of the  English ballad “Children in the Wood,” found  in Percy’s   Reliques.   The master of Wyland Hall,  Norfolk, leaves a little son and daughter to the  care of his wife’s brother. Both children were to  inherit money, but if they died, the money would  go to the uncle. After 12 months the uncle hired  two men to murder the children. One of the  murderers relented and killed his fellow, leaving  the children in the wood. They died during the  night and were covered with leaves by Robin  Redbreast. The uncle eventually died after see -  ing his children die and his wealth destroyed.  After seven years the murderer was caught and  confessed. A play by Robert Farrington (1599)  tells the tale. The phrase “babes in the wood”  is often used for simple, trusting people, never  suspicious and easily fooled.  baboon   A large monkey of Arabia and Africa,  with a short tail and doglike muzzle. In Egyptian  mythology the baboon was sacred to the moon  god Thoth, who was sometimes portrayed as a  baboon. In the Egyptian Book of the Dead the  dead person’s heart is shown placed on a scale,  on top of which sits a baboon. The baboon was  to report to Thoth when the pointer was in the  middle, indicating a balance of the person’s deeds  so he or she could be judged. Sacred baboons  were kept in various Egyptian temples that were  dedicated to moon gods. The baboons were  believed to be the spirits of the dawn who had  been transformed into baboons as soon as the sun  arose when they sang a hymn in the sun’s honor.  See also:   book of the dead; thoth Tower of Babel   40   Babe, the Blue Ox

=== 페이지 158 ===
Babushka-Lyagushka-Skakushka   In  Russian folklore this is “Grandmother Hopping  Frog,” who lives in the Green Marsh. She is  asked   by   Baba-Yaga   to   help   Petrushka   find  the place I-Know-Not-Where and the thing  I-Know-Not-What. The frog agrees to help  Petrushka if he will carry her in a pitcher of  fresh milk to the River of Fire. There she can be  rejuvenated from the powers of the river. Baba-  Yaga agrees and in a mortar and pestle takes the  frog home, where she prepares a pitcher of fresh  milk, puts the frog in the pitcher, and tells her  son-in-law what to do with the pitcher and the  frog. Petrushka takes the pitcher with the frog,  mounts Baba-Yaga’s fastest horse, and rides to  the River of Fire. Here Petrushka lets the frog  out of the pitcher and puts her on the ground.  Babushka-Lyagushka-Skakushka places one foot  in the River of Fire and starts to grow until she  is the size of Petrushka’s horse. She then tells  him to climb on her back, which he does, and  the frog continues to increase in size until she  is taller than the trees of the forest. The grand -  mother frog then leaps through the air and  lands in a foreign land, where she breathes out  slowly and soon returns to her normal size. She  informs him that they are now in I-Know-Not-  Where, and if he goes to the humblest hut in  the village and hide behind the stove, there he  will find the thing I-Know-Not-What. In the  hut lives an old man who commands Nobody  to bring him food. A banquet soon appears,  and when the old man calls for wine, that, too,  appears. The old man eats and drinks his fill,  and Petrushka then creeps out from behind the  stove and asks Nobody to accompany him back  to the czar’s palace. This he does, and now he  knows where I-Know-Not-Where is and what  I-Know-Not-What is.  See also:   baba-yaga; petrushka; river of  fire  Baby in the Oven, The   This urban legend  usually includes a hippie-type young woman  who has been left as babysitter for an infant.  When the parents call in the middle of the  evening to check on the infant, the girl reports  that she has stuffed the turkey and put it in the  oven. The parents do not remember having  a turkey, nor giving her instructions to bake  anything. They return home quickly to find  that the drug-crazed young woman had stuffed  the baby and put it in the oven to bake. The  story has been updated to include a microwave  as the oven.  See also:   urban legend  Baca,   Elfego   (1865–1945)   In   American  history and folklore, Mexican-American hero.  When Baca, at 19, was told that a band of  Texans had publicly castrated a Mexican and  used another for target practice, he borrowed  a lawman’s badge and set out for Frisco (now  Reserve), New Mexico. When he got there, some  cowboys were still causing trouble, and Baca  promptly arrested one who had shot off Baca’s  hat. The next day some 80 cowboys arrived to  teach Baca a lesson; a gunfight ensued in which  some 4,000 rounds of ammunition were fired  Baboon   (Konrad Gesner)  Baca, Elfego    4 

=== 페이지 159 ===
during a 36-hour period. At the end, four Texas  cowboys were dead. Baca was brought to trial  but acquitted. He became a lawyer, and later the  deputy of Socorro County, New Mexico, and  finally the owner of a detective agency. His busi -  ness card read: “Discreet Shadowing Done.” He  was known as hero of the people, and his legend  continued in his lifetime.  Bacabs   (erected, set up)   In Mayan mythology,  four giant brothers who supported the four cor -  ners of the heavens, blowing the winds from the  four cardinal points. They kept the sky in place  after it had fallen following a great flood. Each  was identified with a particular color and cardinal  point, thus Kan (belly) was associated with the  south and the color yellow. The remaining three  were Chac, who was red and assigned to the east;  Zac, who was white, to the north; and Ed, who  was black, to the west. The winds and rains were  said to be under the control of these Bacabs.  As each year in the Mayan calendar was sup -  posed to be under the influence of one of the  brothers, one Bacab was said to die at the close  of each year. After the nameless or intercalary  days had passed, the next Bacab would come  alive. Each computation of the year began on  the day Imix, which was the third before the  close of the Mayan week; this was said to be  figuratively the day of death of the Bacab of that  year. It was not until three or four days later  that a new year began, with another Bacab, who  was said to have died and risen again.   The Ritual  of the Bacabs,   an ancient Mayan book contain -  ing incantations, was so named because of its  frequent mention of the Bacabs.  See also:   chac  Bacalou   In Haitian voodoo, an evil loa (dei -  fied spirit of the dead), represented by a skull  and crossbones.  See also:   loa  Bacchants   (Bacchantes, Bacchae)   In Greco-  Roman cult, women who followed the god  Dionysus, who was also called Bacchus. His  followers, also called Maenads, were said to  become mad with frenzy, to tear human flesh,  and even eat their own children. The cult was  banned as the source of a political conspiracy  by the Roman Senate in 186   b.c.e.   Euripides’  play   The Bacchae   deals with the cult. Numerous  paintings depict the Bacchanalia, the festival  held in honor of the god. Among the most  famous   are   those   by   Rubens   and   Poussin.  Picasso   “repainted”   the   Poussin   work.   The  poet Keats wrote of the Bacchants:  We follow Bacchus! Bacchus on the wing,  A conquering! Bacchus, young Bacchus!  good or ill betide, We dance before him  through kingdoms wide.  In “Drinking Song” Longfellow wrote:  Round about him fair Bacchantes, Bearing  Cymbals, flutes, and thyrses.  See also:   dionysus  Bacchus   In Greek and Roman mythology,  a title for Dionysus, son of Zeus and Semele,  who was a daughter of Cadmus; also called  Bacchant   42   Bacabs

=== 페이지 160 ===
Liber. Numerous art and music works iden -  tify the god Dionysus as Bacchus, such as   The  Young Bacchus   by Caravaggio, which portrays  one of the artist’s male lovers; Titian’s great  Bacchus and Ariadne,   depicting the god jump -  ing from his chariot; and Roussel’s two-act  ballet,   Bacchus et Ariane   (1930). Ovid’s   Fasti  (book 3) supplied most of the imagery for the  paintings.  See also:   ariadne; cadmus; dionysus; ovid;  semele; zeus  Bachúe   (she   of   the   large   breasts)   In   the  mythology of the Chibcha Indians of Colombia,  mother goddess and protector of crops. After  the supreme god Chiminigagua had created  light,   the   goddess   Bachúe   emerged   from   a  mountain lake with a three-year-old child. She  went to live in a nearby village, Iguaque, and  brought up the child. When he was of age, she  married him and bore four or six children, who  populated the land. With her task finished,  Bachúe and her husband left for the mountains  and finally reentered the sacred lake as snakes.  In some accounts the name of the goddess is  given as Fura-chogue, “the beneficent female.”  See also:   chiminigagua  Bacon, Roger   (1214–1292)   In medieval his -  tory and legend, English monk, believed to  be a wizard. Bacon did numerous scientific  experiments, which earned for him a reputa -  tion as being in league with Satan. One legend,  commonly found in early romances, tells of the  Brazen Head. The monk had a head made of  bronze, which he often consulted. He had his  attendant Miles watch the Brazen Head while  he slept. Once, while Miles was watching the  head, it spoke to him. “Time is,” it said. A half  hour later it said, “Time was.” In another half  hour it said, “Time’s past.” Then the Brazen  Head fell to the ground and broke to pieces.  Byron in his mock epic poem   Don Juan   (book  1), uses the lines:  Like Friar Bacon’s brazen head, I’ve spoken  “Time is,” “Time was,” “Time’s past.”  Earlier the English poet Alexander Pope had  written in his mock epic   The Dunciad   (book 3):  “Bacon trembled for his brazen head.” The  monk is the subject of a play by Robert Greene,  Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay   (1594).  See also:   satan.  badal   (abdal) (substitute, double)   In Islamic  folklore, spirit of a man. The badal are known  only to Allah. The number of badals varied.  Some   Islamic   accounts   give   40,   some   30,  others just 7. It is believed that when a holy  man or saint dies, his badals, or “substitute,”  immediately fills his place. Some Islamic writ -  ers explain badal as “one who, when he departs  from a place, has the power to leave his double  behind him.” Others say the badal is “one who  has experienced a spiritual transformation.”  See also:   allah  Badessy   In   Haitian   voodoo,   loa   (deified  spirit of the dead) of the winds.  See also:   loa  Priest of Bacchus  Badessy    43

=== 페이지 161 ===
badi   (mischiefs)   In   Malayan   mythology,  demons   that   inhabit   animate   and   inanimate  objects. Various accounts are given of their ori -  gin. One says they sprang from three drops of  blood spilled by Adam on the ground; another  account says they are the offspring of the djinn;  still another credits their origin to the yellow  glow at sunset. There is disagreement on their  total, which is either 190 or 193. Various charms  and ceremonies are used in Malaya to cast out  badi from people, animals, plants, and objects.  See also:   adam and eve; djinn  Bagadjimbiri   In Australian mythology, twin  culture heroes of the Karadjeri in northwest -  ern Australia. At first they appeared in the  form of dingos; they created water holes and  sexual organs for humankind and instituted the  rite of circumcision. The two brothers were  killed   when,   having   become   gigantic   men,  they annoyed the cat man, Ngariman, with  their loud laughter. He gathered together his  relatives, and they speared the twins to death.  Distraught at this, Dilga, their mother, the  earth goddess, caused milk to flow from her  breasts, which drowned the killers and revived  her sons. When the Bagadjimbiri decided to  leave earth, their dead bodies became water  snakes, and their spirits ascended to the sky.  Baginis   In Australian mythology, half-human  and half-animal female beings who have lovely  faces but claws instead of fingers and toenails.  They capture men and rape them. After they  are satisfied, the men are freed.  Bahram   Fire   (Berezisauanh)   In   Persian  mythology, sacred fire that represents all fires and  shoots up before the good god, Ahura Mazda. It  is composed of 16 different kinds of fire and is  the earthly representative of divine fire.  See also:   ahura mazda  Bahram Gur   (Bahramgor, Bahram Gor)   In  Persian mythology, a hero king appearing in  the epic poem   Shah Namah   by Firdusi, as well  as in the poem   Haft Paykar   (seven portraits) by  another Persian poet, Nizami.  Bahram Gur is encountered frequently in  Persian poetry and legend. He is credited with  the invention of Persian poetry and appears in  many tales as a “great hunter.” In Firdusi’s epic  Bahram Gur married seven princesses, daugh -  ters of the king of the Seven Climates, each of  whom told him a story at night before retiring.  Each night Bahram Gur slept with a different  wife and heard a different tale.  Often Bahram Gur is depicted in Persian art  hunting with his mistress Azada. One scene often  portrayed is that of the hero meeting a shepherd  who has hung his dog on a tree because the dog  let the wolf steal lambs from his flock.  Some scholars believe Bahram Gur is a por -  trait of a Sassanian king of Persia who lived in  the fifth century   c.e.  See also:   shah namah  Baiame   In Australian mythology, the totem -  ic ancestor of the Kamilaron tribe of New  South Wales who taught the people customs  and sacred rites. His wives are Cunnembeille,  who   bore   him   children,   and   his   favorite,  Birrahgnooloo, who did not. Birrahgnooloo,  however, sends floods upon the earth; Baiame  is invoked for rain.  See also:   bunjil  Bailiff’s Daughter of Islington   English  ballad found in Percy’s   Reliques.   A squire’s son  loved the bailiff’s daughter, but she gave him  no encouragement. His friends sent him to  London, “an apprentice for to binde.” After  seven years, the bailiff’s daughter, “in ragged  attire,” set out to walk to London, “her true  love to inquire.” The young man, on horse -  back, met her but did not recognize her. When  he asked after the bailiff’s daughter of Islington,  she at first said she was dead but later told the  truth, revealing her identity.  bajang   (badjang)   In Malayan mythology, an  evil spirit whose presence foretells disaster and   44   badi

=== 페이지 162 ===
brings illness. Generally, it takes the form of a  polecat and disrupts the household by mewing  like a great cat.  The   bajang   is considered very dangerous  to children, who are sometimes provided with  amulets of black silk threads, called bajang  bracelets, which are supposed to protect them  against the evil influence of the   bajang.   In Perak  and some other parts of the Malay Peninsula,  the   bajang   is regarded as one of several kinds  of demons that can be enslaved by man and  become familiar spirits.  Such familiars are handed down in certain  families as heirlooms. The master of the famil -  iar is said to keep it imprisoned in a   tabong,   a  vessel made from a joint of bamboo closed by  a stopper made from leaves. Both the case and  the stopper are prepared by certain magic arts  before they can be used. The familiar is fed  with eggs and milk. When its master wishes to  make use of it, he sends it forth to possess and  prey on the vitals of anyone whom his malice  may select as victim. The victim is at once  seized by a deadly and unaccountable ailment  that can be cured only by magic. If the   bajang   is  neglected by its keeper and is not fed regularly,  it will turn on its owner, who will thereupon  fall victim to the   bajang.  Baka   (Babako)   In   Haitian   voodoo,   a   very  evil loa (deified spirit of the dead). Black roost -  ers and black goats are sacrificed to appease his  anger. Sometimes instead of the blood sacrifice  he will accept a virgin girl for sexual inter -  course. His symbol is two broken crosses.  See also:   loa  Bakemono   In Japanese folklore, a generic  name for evil spirits or ghosts. They are often  portrayed without feet and with long straight  hair.  Balaam   In the Bible, O.T., a Midian prophet  or seer, called on to curse the Hebrews by Balak,  king of Moab (Num. 22–23). On his journey an  angel of Yahweh, the Hebrew god, invisible  to Balaam, barred the way, causing his ass to  turn aside (the ass could see the angel). Balaam  then beat his ass, and the animal spoke to him,  asking him why he was doing it since an angel  was in the way. In medieval Christian belief the  conversion of Balaam by the angel was regarded  as a prefiguration of the appearance of the risen  Christ to the Apostle Thomas. The theme is  often found in Romanesque and Gothic church  decorations. Medieval Christians believed that  the ass Jesus rode into Jerusalem was a direct  descendant of Balaam’s ass and that after Jesus’  death it was taken to Verona, Italy, and died  later of old age. Its bones were set aside as relics  and preserved in the city’s cathedral. Rembrandt  painted the subject.  See also:   thomas, st.; yahweh  Balam-Quitzé   (smiling   jaguar)   In   Mayan  mythology, first man and a culture hero in  the   Popol Vuh,   the sacred book of the ancient  Quiché Maya of Guatemala.  Balam-Quitzé was the first man, created by  Hurakán from the flour of white and yellow  maize. He was followed by Balam-Agag (noc -  turnal tiger), Mahucutan (famous name), and  Iqui-Balam (moon tiger). These four were the  ancestors of the Quiché, providing them with  skills and knowledge.  The   Popol Vuh   tells how Balam-Quitzé pro -  vided fire for his people. One day the god Tohil  appeared to Balam-Quitzé, who took the god  and “put him on his back” in a wooden chest he  carried. As yet there was no fire, and the hero  Balam-Quitzé    45  Balaam

=== 페이지 163 ===
asked Tohil to provide him with it. The god  gave Balam-Quitzé fire, which the culture hero  then took to his people.  After the four men had completed their task  of educating the people, they departed from  the land and disappeared on Mount Hacavitz.  Before the departure Balam-Quitzé left behind  the Pizom-Gagal, a package that “was wrapped  up and could not be unwrapped; the seam did  not show because it was not seen when they  wrapped it up.” The mysterious package was  never   opened.   It   was   called   the   Bundle   of  Greatness.  See also:   hacavitz;   popol vuh  Balan and Balin   In Arthurian legend, two  brothers: Balan, the wiser and more eventem -  pered, and Balin, the hot-tempered. Through  some mistake the two meet in battle, and both  are killed. They are the subject of Tennyson’s  narrative poem “Balin and Balan” in   Idylls of  the King.   Balan is also the name of a strong and  courageous giant in many old romances.  Balarama   (he   who   delights   in   power)   In  Hindu mythology, brother of Krishna. He is  often regarded as an avatar or incarnation of  the god Vishnu.  The Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata  tells how the god Vishnu took two hairs, one  black and one white, and they became Krishna  and Balarama. Krishna was of dark complexion  and Balarama light. Once when Balarama was  drunk, he called on the Yamuna River to come  to him that he might bathe himself. The river  did not listen to him, so he dragged its waters  until they assumed a human form and asked  Balarama for forgiveness. This action gained  for Balarama the title Yamuna-bhid (breaker;  dragger of the Yamuna).  Another important episode in the life of  Balarama tells how he killed the demon Dhe -  nuka. As boys Krishna and Balarama picked  some   fruit   from   a   grove   belonging   to   the  demon. Dhenuka took the form of an ass and  began to kick Balarama. The young hero seized  Dhenuka by the heels, whirled him around till  he was dead, and then threw his body on top  of a palm tree. Several other demons came to  the assistance of Dhenuka, but they were also  thrown to the top of palm trees until “the trees  were laden with dead asses.”  Balarama also fought an apelike demon,  Dwivida, who had stolen Balarama’s plowshare.  Dwivida was thrown to the earth, and “the  crest of the mountain on which he fell was  splintered into a hundred pieces by the weight  of his body.”  In Indian art Balarama is portrayed with  a fair complexion. His weapons are a club,  plowshare, and pestle, and his emblem is the  palm tree.  See also:   avatar; krishna;   mahabharata,  the ; vishnu  Baldak Borisievich   In Russian folklore, a  hero who defeated the Turkish sultan. One  day Baldak Borisievich, with 29 other young  men, went directly to the Turkish sultan to  “take   from   him   his   steed   with   the   golden  mane.” They accomplished the deed, and in  the process they killed the sultan’s cat, spat in  the sultan’s face, and hanged the sultan with a  silken noose, his favorite pasha with a hempen  noose, and his youngest daughter with a bast  (rope of tree bark) noose.  Baldur   (Balder,   Baldr,   Balldr)   (lord)   In  Norse mythology, god of light, the sun, who  always spoke the truth; son of Odin and Frigga;  husband of Nanna; father of Forseti. Baldur’s  myth, told in the   Prose Edda,   is one of the most  complete in Norse mythology. Baldur was tor -  mented by terrible dreams, indicating that he  was to die. He told the gods of his evil dreams,  and they resolved to “conjure all things to  avert from him the threatened danger.” Frigga  exacted an oath from fire, water, iron, metals,  stones, earths, diseases, beasts, birds, poisons,  and   creeping   things   so   that   none   of   them  would harm Baldur. When this was done the  gods passed their time hurling darts, swords,   46   Balan and Balin

=== 페이지 164 ===
and battle-axes at Baldur, knowing he could not  be harmed. When the evil god Loki saw that  Baldur remained unhurt, he transformed him -  self into a woman and went to Frigga’s home,  Fensalir. Loki, in disguise, asked Frigga why  the gods were throwing stones at Baldur.  She replied that he could not come to any  harm. “Neither metal nor wood can hurt Bal -  dur,” she said, “for I have exacted an oath from  all of them.”  “What!” exclaimed Loki. “Have all things  sworn to spare Baldur?”  “All things,” replied Frigga, “except one  little shrub that grows on the eastern side of  Valhalla. It is called mistletoe, and I thought it  too young and feeble to ask an oath from it.”  As soon as Loki heard this he went away.  Resuming his natural shape, he cut off a twig of  mistletoe and went to the assembly hall of the  gods. Hodur, the blind god, was asked by Loki  why he was not throwing anything at Baldur.  “Because I’m blind,” Hodur said, “and can’t  see where Baldur is standing. Also, I haven’t  anything to throw at him.”  “Come then,” said Loki, “do as the rest of  the gods. Show honor to Baldur and throw this  twig at him. I’ll direct your arm toward the  right place.”  Hodur took the mistletoe and under Loki’s  guidance hurled it at Baldur, who was pierced  through and fell dead to the ground. The gods  were stunned and began to lament. Frigga then  said she would give all of her love to anyone  who would ride to Hel to find Baldur and offer  Hela, goddess of death, a ransom for the god’s  return to Asgard. Hermod volunteered. He  arrived in Hel and found Baldur occupying the  most distinguished seat in the hall of the dead.  He then asked Hela to let Baldur ride home  with him, saying that the whole world was  lamenting the god’s death.  “If all things in the world both living and  lifeless weep for him, then I will let him return,”  she said, “but if any one thing speak against him  or refuse to weep, he shall be kept in Hel.”  The gods then sent messengers throughout  the world asking everything to weep for Baldur.  All things complied. As the messengers were  returning, believing their mission a success,  they found an old hag named Thaukt sitting in  a cavern. They asked her to weep for Baldur so  the god could return. She refused.  The   Prose Edda   ends the account with “It  was strongly suspected that this hag was no  other than Loki himself who never ceased to  work evil among the gods.”  Baldur’s myth was the inspiration for Mat -  thew Arnold’s long narrative poem   Balder Dead.  See also:   asgard; frigga; hermod; hodur;  loki;   prose edda  Baldwin   of   Flanders   (1058–1118)   First  titular Christian king of Jerusalem after the city  was captured by crusaders. Technically, Godfrey  of Bouillon was the first king, but he refused to  wear the crown, saying he would not wear a  golden crown in the city where his Savior had  worn one of thorns. Godfrey, therefore, accept -  ed only the title of count. Baldwin of Flanders  succeeded Godfrey on his death in 1100.  ballad   A narrative folk song, believed to have  been developed during the Christian Middle  Ages and found throughout Europe. The most  famous collection in English is F. J. Child’s  English and Scottish Popular Ballads   (1882–1885)  in five large volumes. Numerous poets have  written literary ballads; Goethe, Schiller, and  Longfellow are among the most famous.  Baldur   (W. G. Collingwood)  ballad    4 

=== 페이지 165 ===
Balmung   In   Norse   mythology,   a   magical  sword forged by Völund the Smith (Wayland  the Smith). Balmung appears in the sagas relat -  ing to the adventures of the Norse Sigmund,  called Siegfried in Germanic myth. The sword  was placed in the Branstock tree by Odin,  chief of the gods. Odin said that the weapon  would belong only to the warrior who could  pull it out of the tree. The sword then would  assure its owner victory in battle. Nine Volsung  princes and others tried to remove the sword  and   failed.   Sigmund,   the   10th   and   young -  est, laid a firm hand on the sword’s hilt and  easily   removed   it   from   the   Branstock   tree.  The episode is vividly recreated in William  Morris’s narrative poem   Sigurd the Volsung and  the Fall of the Niblungs.   According to other  sources, Balmung was later destroyed by Odin,  restored, and used by Sigurd (Siegfried) to kill  the dragon Fafnir.  See also:   nibelungenlied ; odin; siegfried;  sigmund; sigurd; wayland the smith  Balor   In Celtic mythology, a god-king of  the Fomorians, a group of deities connected  with darkness and evil; grandson of Net; son of  Buarainech; husband of Cathlionn. Balor had  one eye, poisoned in his youth, but it retained  the power of striking dead anyone it looked at.  He never opened it except on the battlefield  with the aid of four men who lifted the eyelid.  In the war with the beneficent gods Balor slew  Nuada but was killed by the god Lugh, his  grandson, who finally destroyed his fatal eye  with a magic missile. In James Joyce’s novel  Ulysses,   the god is called Balor of the Evil Eye.  See also:   ethne; fomorians  Bamapama   In Australian mythology, trick -  ster   of   the   Murngin   in   northern   Australia,  often called the “crazy man” because he vio -  lates various taboos, especially those involving  clan incest.  See also:   trickster  bamboo   A plant with hollow reeds that grows  in tropical and semitropical regions. In Chinese  mythology, the bamboo is a symbol of longevity  because of its durable, evergreen qualities. In  the Philippine Islands, Christian crosses made of  bamboo are set up in the fields to ensure that the  crops will grow. The Aka-Bo of the Andaman  Islands believed that the first man, called Jutpu,  came to life inside a large bamboo.  Bana   (arrow)   In Hindu mythology, a demon  giant with 1,000 arms who was a friend of the  god Shiva and an enemy of the god Vishnu.  Bana is sometimes called Vairochi. In the Rig-  Veda Bana referred to Indra’s thousand-feath -  ered and hundred-barbed arrows.  See also:   shiva; vishnu  Banaidja   In Australian mythology, ancestral  figure, son of Laindjung. He taught the Arnhem  Landers their totems and sacred rituals. One of  his enemies, Muru, said “He has made a charm  so that women follow him as the eye of a snake  follows a bird. He must die.” One day when  Banaidja left camp and walked through the grass,  a spear was thrust into his back, followed by a rain  of spears. Muru and his companion hid the body,  but his spirit entered a paperbark tree. When  people celebrate Laindjung and Banaidja, they  tie bundles and beat them while they dance.  See also:   laindjung  Banba   In Celtic mythology, a goddess repre -  senting Ireland, as well as one of the three ancient  names for the country (the other names were  Eriu and Fodla). Banba is cited in James Joyce’s  novel   Ulysses,   in which the novelist writes: “Wail,  Banba, with your wind.   .   .   .” In a variant myth  influenced by Christianity, Banba was said to be a  daughter of Cain who lived in Ireland before the  Flood recorded in Genesis (6:5–8:22).  See also:   cain and abel  Ba-neb-djet   (Ba-neb-Tatau,   Ba-neb-Tet,  Benedbdetet)   (soul,   lord   of   Busiris)   In  Egyptian   mythology,   ram   god   of   Mendes,   4    Balmung

=== 페이지 166 ===
portrayed as a ram with flat, branching horns  surmounted by a uraeus. He was the northern  equivalent of the god Khnum. As with the  Apis bull, a live ram was used in worship and  believed to have within him the soul of a god.  Ba-neb-djet was believed to have the souls of  Ra, Osiris, Geb, and Shu. The ancient Greeks  identified the Egyptian deity with their Priapus  and Pan.  See   also:   apis; geb; khnum; osiris; pan;  priapus; ra; shu; uraeus  banjo   In   American   folklore,   a   guitar-like  stringed instrument said to have been invented  by Ham, a son of Noah, when the family  was on the Ark. President Thomas Jefferson  added this footnote to his   Notes on Virginia :  “The instrument proper for them [the slaves]  is the banjar, which they brought hither from  Africa.” Reverend Jonathan Boucher, a British  Loyalist who lived in America prior to the  Revolutionary   War,   wrote   of   the   banjo   in  his dictionary: “The body was a large hollow  gourd with a long handle attached to it, strung  with catgut, and played on with the fingers.” It  is also said that the gift of making music on the  banjo is granted to those who meet the devil  at a crossroads “where men are hanged and  suicides buried.”  Bannik   (bath   spirit)   In   Slavic   folklore,  bathhouse (banya) spirit, portrayed as a small  old man with a large head and lots of dishev -  eled   hair.   Bannik   is   either   beneficent   or  demonic, depending on his mood. He guards  the   entrance   to   the   bathhouse   and   allows  three groups of bathers to enter unharmed,  but the fourth group is his to do with as he  wishes. If he is angry, he pours scalding water  over a bather’s head or, even worse, strangles  the bather to death. Sometimes he invites  devils and forest spirits into the bathhouse.  To pacify him, peasants leave some water for  him to bathe in. If one wishes to discover the  future, Bannik gives the answer, but only if  he is in the right mood. Before entering one  has to put his naked back through a half-open  door of the bathhouse. If Bannik touches the  person with his claws, it is a bad omen, but if  he touches the person with the soft part of his  hand, it is a good omen.  banshee   (Bean-sidhe)   (woman   fairy)   In  Celtic folklore, an attendant fairy that follows  a family and wails, foretelling but not causing  the death of one of its members. The Caoine,  the funeral cry of the Irish peasants, is said  to be an imitation of the cry of the banshee.  When more than one banshee is present and  they wail and sing in chorus, it is for the death  of some very holy or great person. An omen  that sometimes accompanies the banshee is  the Coach-a-bower, an immense black coach  mounted with a coffin and drawn by headless  horses. If this funeral entourage arrives at a  house and the householder opens the door, a  basin of blood will be thrown in his or her face.  A banshee’s attention to a family was consid -  ered to be a mark of high station, especially in  Ireland, and many families boasted of their own  banshee. Various tales of the banshee are found  in William Butler Yeats’s collection of   Irish Folk  Stories and Fairy Tales.  Bannik   (I. Bilibin)  banshee    4 

=== 페이지 167 ===
Baphomet   In   medieval   Christianity,   idol  said to have been worshipped by the Order  of   Knights   Templar.   Some   scholars   believe  that Baphomet is a corruption of the medieval  French spelling of Mahomet, who was accused  of being a devil by the Christians. The Order  of Knights Templar were said to worship the  idol Baphomet and were charged with both  heresy and homosexuality by King Philip IV in  1307. Whether the charges were true or false  is still debated by historians. Baphomet’s idol  was a small figure with two heads, one male and  one female. The body was that of a woman.  See also:   knights templar, order of  Baphyra   In   Greek   mythology,   the   name  assumed by the Helicon River when it refused  to   wash   away   the   blood   the   Bacchants   (or  Maenads) had spilled when they tore Orpheus  limb from limb. To avoid complicity in the  crime, the river submerged itself and reemerged  miles away, taking the name Baphyra.  See also:   orpheus  baptism   (to dip or to dunk)   In Christian  ritual, sacrament of initiation by immersion  in or sprinkling with water. It was one of the  seven sacraments of Christianity during the  Middle Ages.  The rite of baptism was not originally con -  nected with the followers of Jesus but with  those of St. John the Baptist. When Jesus’  followers absorbed those of John, the rite was  taken over into Christianity. In John’s baptism  the sinner was made aware of his sinfulness, but  in Christian baptism the sinner was cleansed  from Original Sin, the mark of Adam, which,  according to Christian dogma, had descended  on all men and women. Thus, the Church  Council   of   Orange,   held   in   529,   decreed:  “With the grace received through baptism aid -  ing and cooperating, all those are baptized in  Christ can and ought, if they will strive faith -  fully, to fulfill what pertains to the salvation of  the soul.” Part of the medieval rite of baptism  contained an exorcism. The priest would say  over the person or child to be baptized:  I exorcise you, unclean spirit, in the name  of the Father, and of the Son, and of the  Holy Spirit. Come out and leave this ser -  vant of God [name]. Accursed and damned  spirit, hear the command of God Himself,  he who walked upon the sea and extended  his right hand to Peter as he was sinking.  Therefore, accursed Devil, acknowledge  your condemnation; pay homage to the  true and living God; pay homage to Jesus  Christ, his Son, and to the Holy Spirit, and  depart from this servant of God, [name],  for Jesus Christ, Our Lord and God, has  called   [him/her]   to   his   holy   grace   and  blessing, and to the font of Baptism.  This formula is still used today in the English  versions of the Roman rite of baptism.  A medieval baptismal rite used in northern  countries contained the following recitation by  priest and candidate:  Baphomet   50   Baphomet

=== 페이지 168 ===
Q   Forsaketh thou the Devil?  A   I forsake the Devil!  Q   And all the Devil guilds.  A   And all Devil guilds.  Q   And all Devil works?  A   And I forsake all Devil works, and  words. Thor and Woden and Saxenote  [pagan Norse gods] .   .   . and all the evil  ones that are his companions.  This formula took for granted that the northern  pagan gods actually existed and were devils.  See also:   jesus christ; john the baptist, st.  Barabbas   (son of Abba)   In the Bible, N.T.,  the robber and insurrectionary leader whom  Pilate freed from prison instead of Jesus (Matt.  27, Mark 15:7, Luke 23:18, John 18:40). The  incident, which has no historical basis, is an  attempt to place the blame for Jesus’ death  on the Jews instead of the Romans, who were  responsible for his trial and execution. A novel,  Barabbas,   by Par Lagerkvist, tells the story of  what happened after the Crucifixion.  Barada, Antoine   (1807–1885)   In American  history and folklore, son of an Indian woman  named Laughing Buffalo, a member of the  Omaha tribe, and of Parisian count Michael  Barada, who was employed as interpreter. In  Missouri according to the Prairie du Chien  Treaty of 1830 a “Half Breed Tract” of land  was given to outcast “half-breeds,” progeny of  Indians and French trappers. Antoine Barada  received 320 acres in 1856. According to leg -  end, he once stuck a post into the ground,  which caused a geyser to shoot 50 feet into the  air. In order to stop it, he sat on it. Antoine was  later referred to as the “mighty Paul Bunyan”  of the area.  Barbara, St.   (strange, foreign)   (third century)  In Christian legend, martyr. Patron saint of  architects,   builders,   and   fireworks   makers.  Invoked against thunder and lightning and all  accidents arising from explosions of gunpow -  der. Feast, 4 December.  One of the most popular saints during the  Middle Ages, St. Barbara’s life is told in   The  Golden Legend,   a collection of saints’ lives written  in the 13th century by Jacobus de Voragine. Bar -  bara was the daughter of Dioscorus, a rich pagan  nobleman. He loved her dearly but did not  want her to be married, so he shut her up in a  solitary tower. There she began to contemplate  the meaning of life and came to the realization  that the gods worshipped by her father—the  sun, moon, and stars—were false. Seeking some  answer to the mystery of life, she called upon  Origen, the Christian writer, to instruct her in  the Christian faith. Origen sent her one of his  disciples disguised as a physician. Barbara was  taught and was baptized a Christian.  St. Barbara  Barbara, St.    5 

=== 페이지 169 ===
One day, before Dioscorus left on a journey,  he “sent skillful architects to construct within  the tower a bath-chamber of wonderful splen -  dor. One day Saint Barbara descended from her  turret to view the progress of the workmen.”  She saw they were constructing two windows  and   ordered   that   they   make   three   instead.  When her father returned, he asked why she  had changed his orders.  “Know,   my   father,”   said   Barbara,   “that  through three windows doth the soul receive  light, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost;  and the Three are One.”  Dioscorus   was   not   at   all   pleased   by   his  daughter’s theological explanation of the three  windows. In a fit of anger he “drew his sword to  kill her,” but she fled and was hidden by angels.  A shepherd betrayed her by pointing silently  to the place of her concealment. Her father  dragged her by the hair, beat her, and shut her  up in a dungeon. After she had been tortured  by the proconsul Marcian, her father “carried  her to a certain mountain near the city, drew his  sword, and cut off her head with his own hands.”  As he descended from the mountain, a “most  fearful tempest, with thunder and lightning, and  fire fell upon this cruel father and consumed him  utterly, so that not a vestige of him remained.”  This gruesome tale found great acceptance  during the Middle Ages, when statues of St. Bar -  bara were frequently placed in churches and at  shrines. In some sections of central Europe it is  the custom to break a branch off a cherry tree on  St. Barbara’s feast day, place it in a pot of water  in the kitchen, and keep it warm. When the twig  bursts into bloom at Christmastime, it is used  for decoration. The girl who tends the twig,  according to the belief, will find a good husband  within the year if she succeeded in producing  the bloom exactly on Christmas Eve.  In medieval Christian art St. Barbara is  often portrayed with her tower. Sometimes she  is shown holding a feather in her hand. This  refers to an old medieval German legend that  when she was scourged by her father, angels  changed the rods into feathers.  As the patron saint connected with fire -  arms, an effigy of St. Barbara is often found  on shields, great guns, and fieldpieces. During  World War I, however, St. Joan of Arc was  considered the patron of firearms among the  French.  See also:   golden legend, the  Barbara   Allen   Subject   of   literary   ballad  by Allan Ramsay (1724), included in Percy’s  Reliques   (1756). Sir John Grehme was dying  because of his love for Barbara Allen. Barbara  was sent to see him, and drawing aside the  curtain, said, “Young man, I think ye’re dyan.”  She then left him. She had not been long gone  when she heard the death bell toll. She repent -  ed of her cruel action and said:  “O mither, mither, mak’ my bed .   .   .  Since my love died for me to-day,  I’ll die for him to-morrow.”  See also   reliques  Barbara Frietchie   In American folklore,  a heroine of John Greenleaf Whittier’s poem  of   the   same   title,   published   in   1864,   that  tells how Barbara Frietchie raised the Union  flag when the Confederate general Stonewall  Jackson   entered   Frederick,   Maryland,   dur -  ing Lee’s Antietam campaign on 6 September  1862. Barbara says in the poem:  Shoot if you must, this old gray head,  But spare your country’s flag, she said.  Touched   by   her   bravery,   a   Confederate  officer saluted “To you, madam, not your flag.”  Whittier, however, confused the facts. A Mrs.  Mary S. Quantrell waved the Union flag at  the Confederate general. Barbara waved the  Union flag when General Burnside, a Union  officer,   came   into   the   town   after   Jackson’s  men left. Frietchie was a local legend; she had  met George Washington, and the story was  attached to her.   52   Barbara Allen

=== 페이지 170 ===
Barbarossa   The   Grimm   Brothers   include  the   legend   of   Friedrich   Barbarossa   at   Mt.  Kyffhausen in their collection of German folk -  lore.   The   Emperor   Barbarossa   drowned   in  1190   c.e.   while on a crusade. Legend has it that  he did not die but sits on a bench at a round  stone table, resting his head in his hand, sleep -  ing. Some say his beard has grown long, right  through the stone table; others say it has grown  around the table, and when it has encircled  the table three times, he will awaken. He will  return when his country needs him again.  One story from 1669 tells of a peasant  transporting grain from the village of Reblin -  gen to Nordhausen. He was stopped along  the way by a dwarf and led into the mountain.  There he was told to empty his sacks and fill  them with gold. He saw the emperor sitting  there motionless.  In another story a shepherd was also led into  the mountain by a dwarf. The emperor asked  him, “Are the ravens still flying around the  mountain?” The shepherd assured him that they  were, to which he replied, “Now I am going to  have to sleep for another hundred years.”  See also:   arthur; charlemagne; mátyás;  merlin; ogier the dane; rákóczi, ferenc;  solomon  Bardo   Thodol   In   Buddhism,   the   Tibetan  Book   of   the   Dead ,   or   the   “After-Death  Experiences of the Bardo Plane, according to  Lama Kazi Dawa- Samdup’s English render -  ing.” Published in English translation in 1927,  compiled and edited by W. Y. Evans-Wentz,  it is a guide for a dying man to pass through  death and rebirth. In his second preface the  editor writes that the message of the work is  “that the Art of Dying is quite as important as  the Art of Living .   .   . of which it is the comple -  ment and summation; that the future of being  is dependent, perhaps entirely, upon a rightly  controlled death .   .   .   .” Traditionally composed  by Padmasambhava, its full Tibetan title lit -  erally means “the Dharma that liberates the  hearer in the Bardo just by being heard.” The  Bardo   is any intermediate state of confusion,  not necessarily that between lives. The version  of Evans-Wentz is considered inaccurate, and  that   of   Francesca   Fremantle   and   Chogyam  Trungpa is preferred. In this work there is  much in common with the Egyptian Book of  the Dead .  See also:   book of the dead; dharma; pad -  masambhava  Bariaus   In   Melanesian   mythology,   spirits  who inhabit old tree trunks. They are often shy  and run away when approached by people.  Barlaam   and   Josaphat   Eighth-century  Christian   tale   by   St.   John   of   Damascus,   a  Syrian monk. It tells how Barlaam, a monk  living in the Sinai, converted Josaphat, the son  of a Hindu king, to Christianity. The basis for  the legend is the life of Buddha, which filtered  into medieval Christian sources from the East.  The work contains the tale of the three cas -  kets, which was used by Shakespeare in   The  Merchant of Venice.  See also:   buddha  Barnabas,   St.   (son   of   consolation)   (first  century)   In the Bible, N.T., companion of St.  Paul who, according to Christian tradition, was  martyred either by burning or being stoned to  death. He is invoked against hailstorms and as a  peacemaker. Feast, 11 June. His symbol is a rake  because 11 June is the time for the hay harvest.  See also:   paul, st.  Barnum, Phineas Taylor   (1810–1891)   In  American history and folklore, a showman who  was called the “Prince of Humbug.” In 1835  he exhibited a black female slave, Joice Heth,  who he claimed was 161 years old and had been  George Washington’s nurse. Actually, she was  only 80 years old. In 1881 he merged his circus  with that of his rival, James A. Bailey, forming  the circus company Barnum and Bailey. He  introduced to America General Tom Thumb, a  midget, and Jenny Lind, the Swedish soprano.  Barnum, Phineas Taylor    53

=== 페이지 171 ===
He also displayed a replica of the petrified  remains of the Cardiff Giant, discovered on a  farm in Cardiff, New York, in October 1869.  On his deathbed he is reported to have asked  how much money the circus pulled in that day.  He is credited with saying, “A sucker is born  every minute,” but it is believed he said, “The  American people like to be humbugged.” The  American   composer   Douglas   Moore’s   sym -  phonic work   Pageant of P. T. Barnum   tries to  capture Barnum’s spirit.  See also:   cardiff giant  Baron   Samedi   In   Haitian   voodoo,   a   loa  (deified spirit of the dead), lord of the cemeter -  ies and god of the crossroads. Baron Samedi is  also known as Baron Cimitière.  See also:   loa  Barsisa   In Islamic legend, a man who bar -  gains with the devil and loses. There are vari -  ous versions of the legend, which is based on a  verse in sura 59 of the Koran.  A monk or devotee, living in a cell for  some 60 years, is continually tempted by the  devil. To win the monk the devil brings a girl  (who is variously described as a shepherdess, a  neighbor’s daughter, a princess) to the monk.  The monk has intercourse with the girl, and  she becomes pregnant. To cover his sin, he  kills the girl and buries the body. Of course,  the devil makes the crime known, and the man  is arrested and sentenced to die. The devil  reveals himself to the monk, offers to save him,  and gives his condition: the monk must wor -  ship him. The monk agrees, but the devil, in  an ironic tone, quotes a verse in sura 59 of the  Koran: “Verily, I am clear of thee! I fear Allah  the Lord of the Worlds!”  A more elaborate version of the tale is found  in the 15th-century Turkish collection   History  of the Forty Viziers.   From the Turkish collection  the tale passed into European literature, finding  its best-known Western expression in Matthew  Gregory Lewis’s Gothic novel   Ambrosio, or The  Monk.   The novel was so popular that it earned  the author the nickname “Monk Lewis.”  Ambrosio, the superior of the Capuchins in  Madrid, is known for his holy life. Matilda, a  young noblewoman (who is actually a demon  in disguise), enters the monastery dressed as a  young novice. She entices Ambrosio, and the  two go from one crime to another (described  with relish by the author), including the seduc -  tion and murder of a young girl by the monk.  The crimes are brought to light, and Ambrosio  is tried before the Inquisition. He bargains  with the devil to free him, and the devil agrees,  releasing Ambrosio in a desert waste. When  the lost monk realizes what he has done and  wants to repent, the devil dashes him to pieces  against a rock.  See also:   faust; koran, the  Bartek and Pies   In Polish folklore, a king  and his jester who exchange places in order to  discover a person’s true feelings. One day King   54   Baron Samedi  St. Barnabas

=== 페이지 172 ===
Bartek, in the clothes of his jester, with the jest -  er in royal robes, went to meet the king’s pro -  spective bride, Bialka, and her sister Spiewna.  Of course Bialka thought the jester, Pies, was  the king and fawned over him, but Spiewna  showed she cared for Bartek even though she  did not know he was the king. The tale ends  with the marriage of Spiewna to the king and  her sister Bialka married to an old organist.  Bartholomew,   St.   (son   of   Tolmai)   (first  century)   In the Bible, N.T., one of the Twelve  Apostles of Jesus. Patron saint of Florentine salt  and cheese merchants, bookbinders, butchers,  corn chandlers, dyers, furriers, leather workers,  shoemakers, tailors, and vine growers. Invoked  against nervous diseases and twitching. Feast,  24 August.  Bartholomew’s name appears on all four  lists of the Twelve Apostles given in the Gos -  pels. Some scholars believe he and Nathanael,  mentioned in the Gospel According to Saint  John, to be one and the same person. Bar -  tholomew, they contend, is the patronymic, or  surname, by which Nathanael is specified as the  son, or   bar,   of Tolmai or possibly Ptolemy.  In an early Christian legend (not included in  the New Testament), Bartholomew was the son  of Prince Ptolomeus (a corruption of Tolmai  or possibly Ptolemy). After the Ascension of  Christ, according to that legend, Bartholomew  preached the gospel in India and Armenia.  He was martyred, but the accounts of his  death do not agree. In the Middle Ages vari -  ous accounts circulated.   The Golden Legend,   a  collection of saints’ lives written in the 13th  century, says that “some say he was crucified  and was taken down ere he died, and for to  have greater torment he was flayed and at the  last beheaded.”   The Golden Legend   always tried  to reconcile differing accounts and may have  combined three different legends that vari -  ously said Bartholomew was crucified, flayed,  or beheaded.  Medieval Christian art often portrays the  saint carrying a large knife, symbol of one form  of his martyrdom. Sometimes St. Bartholomew  is portrayed with his skin hanging over his arm,  as in Michelangelo’s   Last Judgment,   in which  the saint defiantly holds a knife in one hand  and his flayed skin in the other.  See also:   apostle;   golden legend, the  basilisk   (little king)   Fantastic lizardlike cre-  ature believed to be able to kill with its look  or breath; often equated with the cockatrice.  Pliny’s   Historia Naturalis   recounts the myth of  the basilisk, saying it is hatched from the egg  laid by a toad or a cock. To avoid being killed  by the animal, travelers were advised to carry  a mirror with them or a cock or a weasel, two  mortal enemies of the beast. It was believed St. Bartholomew  basilisk    55

=== 페이지 173 ===
that if the basilisk saw its own reflection in the  glass it would instantly die. Early Christian  belief saw the basilisk as a symbol of the devil  or of the Antichrist. A statue in the cathedral at  Amiens, France, portrays Christ treading on a  basilisk, referring to Psalm 91:13: “thou shalt  tread upon the adder and the basilisk, and tram -  ple under foot the lion and the dragon” (Douay  version). Chaucer, Spenser, and Shakespeare all  refer to the fantastic creature. When Richard  III   attempts   to   woo   Ann,   Edward’s   widow,  he cites the beauty of her eyes. She replies,  “Would they were basilisks to strike you dead.”  In   Romeo and Juliet   (3:2) Shakespeare uses the  word cockatrice, meaning basilisk:  .   .   . say thou but “I,” And that bare vowel  “I” shall poison more  Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.  See also:   adder; chaucer; dragon; lion;  weasel  Basil the Great, St.   (kingly)   (328–379)   In  Christian legend, one of the Four Doctors of  the Greek church. Feast, 14 June.  Basil   was   made   bishop   of   Caesarea   in  370 and came into conflict with the emperor  Valens, who was an Arian Christian. Though  threatened with death by the emperor, Basil  remained steadfast and later even gained some  concessions for the Catholics. Robert Southey  took a legend from the saint’s life and used it  for one of his narrative poems,   All for Love or A  Sinner Well Saved.   Elëemon, a freedman, makes  a compact with Satan that if he can marry his  master’s daughter, Cyra, he will give Satan his  soul. The compact is agreed on and the devil  delivers the girl to Elëemon; the two stay mar -  ried for 12 years. Then the ghost of Cyra’s  father reveals the compact. Elëemon flees to  St. Basil, who imposes penance on the sinner.  When Satan comes to collect Elëemon, the  saint enters into a debate with Satan, proving  that the deal is no longer valid.  In Christian art St. Basil is often pictured  with the Four Doctors of the Greek Church.  See also:   doctors of the church; faust  Bass, Sam   (1851–1878)   In American his -  tory and folklore, a bandit who started out as  a deputy sheriff and became a criminal who  rode about the state of Texas robbing banks  and sending the law on wild goose chases.  According to legend, he often gave his stolen  money to the poor. He was killed at Round  Rock by one of his own men, who informed  the Texas Rangers of a projected bank robbery.  Stories of his death abound. Some are found  in the Works Progress Administration files in  the Library of Congress. The folk song “The  Ballad of Sam Bass” makes him into a Robin  Hood. For years a legend persisted about gold  he had hidden and never recovered.  See also:   wpa  Bast   (Bastet, Pasht)   In Egyptian mythology,  cat goddess worshipped at Bubastis in the east -  ern delta. She was looked upon as a manifesta -  tion of the solar eye and was even referred to  as “the Eye of Ra who protects her father Ra.”  Bast, who loved music and dance, was the pro -  Basilisk   56   Basil the Great, St.

=== 페이지 174 ===
tector of pregnant women and also protected  men against disease and evil spirits. Generally,  she was considered the personification of the  beneficial, fertilizing power of the sun, whereas  her counterpart, Sekhmet, the lion goddess,  represented the fierce, destructive power of  the sun.  Bast became an important national deity  about 950   b.c.e.,   and her festival was among the  most popular in Egypt. According to Herodo -  tus’s   History   (book 2), vast numbers of men and  women came to her festival by barge, singing  and dancing, clapping their hands, and playing  the castanets. On their way the women would  shout abuses and even expose themselves to  those along the shore. At Bubastis the feast  was celebrated with abundant sacrifices and  festivities. Dead cats were carefully mummified  and buried. It was said that more than 700,000  devotees attended Bast’s yearly festival and that  more wine was consumed than in all of the rest  of the year besides.  In the Bible the Hebrew prophet Ezekiel  (30:17) refers to Bast’s city, which he calls Phi -  beseth, and says of Bast’s worshippers that the  young men will “fall by the sword” for their  worship of her.  Egyptian   art   usually   portrays   Bast   as   a  woman with the head of a cat. She holds in her  right hand a sistrum for her music and in her  left a shield with the head of a cat or lioness at  the top.  See also:   cat; ezekiel  bat   Any   nocturnal   flying   mammal   having  modified forelimbs that serve as wings; symbol  of both good and evil in world mythology and  folklore. In ancient China and Japan the bat was  a symbol of good fortune. Five bats in Chinese  belief are symbolic of the five blessings: wealth,  health, old age, love of virtue, and a natural  death. It is said the Chinese eat bats to ensure all  of these blessings. In contrast, the bat was con -  sidered a demonic creature during the Christian  Middle Ages, being identified with witches and  the devil. This belief in part stems from the  Old Testament, where the prophet Isaiah (2:20)  tells of a time when sinners will cast their idols  “to the moles and to the bats.” The animal is  also listed among the unclean ones in the Old  Testament. Some cultures believe that bats con -  tain the souls of the dead. There are numerous  Bast  Bat  bat    5 

=== 페이지 175 ===
motifs associated with bats in the   Motif Index of  Folk Literature.   In popular movies and comic  books the heroes Batman and Robin seem to see  the animal as a beneficent symbol.  Batara Guru   (Betara Guru)   Name of the  Hindu god Shiva used in the Malay Peninsula,  Bali, Java, and Sumatra. Batara Guru is often  identified with the spirit or god of the sea, Si Ray  or Madu-Ray. The god rules over the sea from  the low-water mark (at the river’s mouth) to mid -  ocean. His home is in Pusat Tassek, the navel of  the lake. In this mysterious home lives a gigantic  crab. When the crab goes out for food at certain  times during the day, he displaces the water in  Pusat Tassek, causing the ebb and flow of the  tides. From the center of Pusat Tassek springs  a gigantic magic tree, Pauh Jangi, in whose  boughs perches the roc, a large bird able to lift  an elephant (found also in   The Thousand and One  Nights   in the story of Sinbad the Sailor). Batara  Guru has a wife, Madu-ruti, and two children,  Wa’ Ranai and Si Kekas (the scratcher).  See also:   shiva; sinbad the sailor;   thou -  sand and one nights, the  Bato Kanzeon   (horse-headed Kanzeon)   In  Japanese   Buddhist   mythology,   a   form   of  Avalokitesvara, the Bodhisattva of compassion,  guardian of horses, farm animals, and travelers.  Usually Bato Kanzeon is portrayed wearing a  crown or hat on which is a small horse’s head.  Some Japanese artworks portray him with three  faces, each having three eyes. Most images por -  tray him seated, though some show him on a  horse. Often his image is placed beside roads  and near mountain passes.  See also:   avalokitesvara; bodhisattva  Battus   (stammer)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  shepherd of Pylos who saw Hermes steal the  cattle of Apollo. Battus promised not to divulge  the theft but broke his promise and was turned  into stone. The story of Battus’s transforma -  tion is told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 2).  The name is also borne by a king of Cyrene,  son of Polymnestus, a Theraean noble, and  Phronime, daughter of Etearchus. That Battus  founded Cyrene in Libya and was cured of his  stammer when he was frightened by a lion.  See also:   apollo; hermes; ovid  Batu   Herem   In   Malayan   mythology,   the  stone pillar that holds up the sky.  Bau   In   Near   Eastern   mythology   (Babyl-  onian),   goddess   of   abundance   and   fertility  worshipped in Babylon before 2300   b.c.e.   In  various   inscriptions   Bau   is   called   the   chief  daughter of Anu, the god of heaven. Among  her titles, the one most frequently given is that  of “good lady.” She was the mother who fixed  the destinies of men and provided abundance  for the tillers of the soil. On the feast of Zag-  Muk (New Year), bridegrooms offered presents  to their prospective brides in honor of Bau.  See also:   anu; zag-muk  Baucis   and   Philemon   (over-modest   and  friendly slinger)   In Greek mythology, an old  couple rewarded for their hospitality to Zeus  and Hermes.  Zeus and Hermes, in human form, found  themselves in Baucis and Philemon’s country,  Bithynia, without shelter for the night. They  sought lodging at every house, but it was late,  and the householders refused to accommodate  the travelers. At last they came to the house  of Baucis and Philemon, a poor couple who  had grown old together. Baucis and Philemon  welcomed the travelers, raked up the coals into  a fire, and prepared food. When the wine was  poured out for the visitors, the couple saw that  its level in the pitcher had not gone down, but  the wine had replenished itself. They realized  that their visitors were gods and, becoming  fearful, apologized for the poor quality of their  hospitality. But Zeus said: “We are gods. This  inhospitable village shall pay the penalty of its  impiety; you alone shall go free from the chas -  tisement. Quit your house, and come with us to  the top of yonder hill.”  They hastened to obey, and staff in hand,  labored up the steep ascent. When they turned   5    Batara Guru

=== 페이지 176 ===
and looked back down at their village, they saw  that it had been submerged in a lake, with only  their own house standing on a small island of dry  ground. Suddenly, before their eyes, their house  was   transformed   into   a   magnificent   temple.  Their reward for their hospitality to the gods  was to become priest and priestess in the temple  for the rest of their lives. Their final prayer to  the gods was that when the time came for them  to die, they should both die at the same hour so  that they should never be without each other.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book   8)   tells   the  myth, which was also translated into French by  La Fontaine and into English by Dryden, who  translated   part   of   the   entire   Metamorphoses.  The myth was used by Rembrandt for his   Phile -  mon and Baucis,   in which he portrays the couple  and the gods at dinner. Rubens also painted  the scene. There are some 10 operas on the  subject. One,   Philémon et Baucis   (1860), is by  Charles Gounod, the composer of   Faust.  See also:   hermes; ovid; zeus  Baugi   In Norse mythology, an evil giant;  brother of Suttung; killed by Odin, chief of the  gods. Baugi had attempted to kill Odin, but  the god overpowered him. In the legend, Odin  sets out to obtain the sacred mead Odhrerir,  which Suttung controls. When Suttung refuses  to give Odin a single drop of the mead, Odin  asks Baugi for help. They drill a hole into the  mountain where the mead is kept, but when  Odin blows into the hole, the dust comes back,  and Odin knows that Baugi is trying to deceive  him. They drill again, and Odin transforms  himself into a snake and crawls inside. Baugi  tries to strike him, but Odin is already inside  and takes a drink of the mead. Odin married  Baugi’s daughter Gunlod. She bore Odin a  child, Bragi, the god of poetry and eloquence.  Baugi appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   bragi; gunlod, odhrerir; sut -  tung;   prose edda   050  Bavon, St.   (seventh century)   In Christian  legend, patron saint of falconers and of the cit -  ies of Ghent and Haarlem. Feast, 1 October.  Born a nobleman, Bavon was converted to  Christianity by St. Amand of Belgium, first  bishop of Maestricht. This happened when  Bavon was nearly 50 years old, a widower who  had led a life of considerable dissipation, spend -  ing most of his time hunting with his falcon.  After his conversion he gave all of his posses -  sions to the poor and was placed in a monastery  by St. Amand in Ghent. Not satisfied with the  way the monastery was ruled, Bavon decided to  live alone as a hermit in the forest. He found  a tree with a large opening and set up house,  living off herbs. One legend says that when  he became a Christian he was so guilt-ridden  because of his past life that he asked a former  slave to beat him and then cast him into prison.  The servant refused the second part of the  wish, but he did beat the saint.  In Christian art Bavon appears with his  falcon. Sometimes he is portrayed as a hermit  living in a tree, other times as a well-dressed  prince   holding   the   falcon.   In   Hieronymus  Bosch’s   The Last Judgment   the saint is shown  with a falcon on his left hand, while his right  hand reaches for money to distribute to the  poor. Bavon is also known as Allowin.  Bayard   (ruddy, red-haired)   In the Charle-  magne cycle of legends, a horse of incredible  swiftness given by Charlemagne to the four  sons of Aymon. If only one of the sons mount -  ed, the Baugi horse was of ordinary size. But if  all four mounted, its body became elongated  to accommodate the extra riders. It appears in  Boiardo’s epic   Orlando Innamorato   and Ariosto’s  Orlando Furioso.   Legend says that it is still alive  and can be heard neighing in the Ardennes on  Midsummer Day.  See also:   aymon, the four sons of; char -  lemagne; roland  bean   A legume. The bean was sacred to the  Egyptians, who therefore did not eat it. The  Greek   philosopher   Pythagoras   was   said   to  believe that the souls of the dead were lodged  within beans, and ancient Roman legend held  that ghosts of the dead,   lemures,   threw beans  bean    5 

=== 페이지 177 ===
Bayard   60   Bean

=== 페이지 178 ===
at houses at night and brought bad luck to the  inhabitants. To placate these ghosts the Romans  held festivals in which beans were placed or  burned   on   graves.   Bean   festivals   are   com -  mon in world mythology and tradition. Native  American Hopi and Iroquois both celebrate the  bean in ritual, and bean festivals in Europe cel -  ebrated Epiphany, or Twelfth Night, at which  a king and queen were chosen. The king, Rey  de Habas, was elevated three times in honor  of the Trinity and then held up to the ceiling  while he made crosses on the rafters with chalk  to protect the house from evil. Bean cakes were  baked for the feast and portioned out: one for  God, one for the Virgin, one for each member  of the family, and one for the poor.  See also:   jack and the beanstalk  Bean, Judge Roy   (1825–1904)   In American  history and folklore, self-proclaimed “law west  of the Pecos.” Roy Bean (really Isaac Parker of  Fort Smith, Arkansas) ran a saloon and court -  room in Langtry, Texas, where he meted out  his type of justice. He kept a pet bear in court  and had a reputation for bragging, dueling, and  gambling on cockfights. He was known as the  “Hanging Judge” and was famous for saying:  “Hang ’em first, try ’em later,” but there is no  evidence to prove that he had anyone hanged.  When a man was accused of killing a Chinese  worker, Bean let the man go free because he  could not find in his law book “any place where  it is named an offense for a white man to kill a  Chinaman.” In another case, in which he acted  as the town coroner, he fined a dead man for  having a concealed weapon on his person.  Bean also owned a saloon. It was the custom  in those days for a beer salesman to buy drinks  for the whole crowd present; the empty bottles  then were counted and paid up. Bean always  added old empties to the lot. One day a sales -  man questioned him about the large amount he  was being charged and the fact that some of the  beer bottles did not look freshly emptied. Bean  replied, “It does look fairly dry, but it’s the way  of drinking that some of the boys has. They  don’t often get good beer, and when they do,  they not only drink the bottle dry but they sop  it out. Purty good vouch for yore beer, son.”  Bean named a saloon and town after the  love of his life, Lily Langtry, a British actress he  had never met. Bean was not gunned down by a  Mexican outlaw, as some believe, but got drunk  and died in his own bed. Lily Langtry came to  visit 10 months later and listened to the stories  of the man who worshipped her. Hollywood  and the television industry have dealt with the  legend several times. Walter Brennan received  an Academy Award in 1936 for his portrayal of  Bean, in 1956 there was a TV series starring  Edgar Buchanan, and in 1972 the film   The Life  and Times of Judge Roy Bean   featured Paul New -  man and Ava Gardner.  bear   A   large   mammal   with   massive   body  and heavy fur; symbol of both good and evil  in world mythology and folklore. American  Indians regard the bear with awe and respect.  When an Indian killed a bear, he would beg  its pardon and often smoke a peace pipe so  that the bear’s spirit would not be angry. This  respectful approach reflects the belief that the  bear possessed curative powers, and American  Indian shamans in some tribes would imitate  the bear in order to possess those powers. It  was believed by many American Indian tribes  that shamans could transform themselves into  bears and that when they died they went to the  heaven of bears. The Nordic   berserk   is derived  Bear  bear    6 

=== 페이지 179 ===
from the words for bear and   sekr   (cloak), and  was   used   to   describe   warriors   who   clothed  themselves in bear skins in order to frighten  the enemy during battle. In Greek mythology  the bear was sacred to the goddess Artemis. At  her shrine in Arcadia girls between five and ten  years, called “brown bears,” would dance in  honor of the goddess.  In the Old Testament the bear is a symbol  of evil and cruelty, representing the kingdom  of Persia in the Book of Daniel (7:5). Medieval  Christians believed that a bear was born as a  shapeless white lump of flesh, a little larger  than a mouse, without eyes or hair, and that the  mother bear would lick this mass into shape,  eventually forming a bear cub. The legend  was seen as a symbol of the Christian church  converting the unbeliever to the “true faith.”  In today’s American popular symbolism, the  bear is both good, as in Smokey the Bear, and  demonic, as the symbol of Soviet Russia. There  are numerous motifs associated with the bear in  the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   artemis; berserk  beast epic   In European medieval literature, a  series of linked tales grouped about animal char -  acters. The tales are often used to make satiri -  cal comment on the church or the court. The  best-known beast epic is the   Roman de Renart,  about Reynard the Fox. An excellent example of  the beast epic in English is found in Chaucer’s  Canterbury Tales   in   The Nun’s Priest’s Tale.  See   also:   aesopic fables; chaucer; rey -  nard the fox  Beatrix   (bestower of the blessings)   In medi -  eval legend, a nun devoted to the cult of the  Virgin Mary, to whom she offered daily prayers.  One day a clerk spotted her and wanted her for  his mistress. He tempted her until the “old ser -  pent enkindled her breast so vehemently that  she could not bear the flames of love,” accord -  ing to one medieval account. Beatrix went to  the statue of the Virgin and said, “Mistress, I  have served thee as devoutly as I could; behold,  I resign thy keys to thee. I cannot longer with -  stand the temptations of the flesh.” She then  left the convent to live with her lover, but he  abandoned her after a few days. Ashamed to  return to the convent, she became a whore for  some 15 years.  One day she returned to her convent and  asked the doorkeeper, “Did you know Beatrix,  formerly custodian of this oratory?”  The man replied, “I know her well. For she  is an honest and holy woman, and from infancy  even to the present day has remained in this  convent without fault.”  When Beatrix heard this, she wanted to run  away. Suddenly, the Virgin Mary appeared to  her. “During the fifteen years of thy absence,  I have performed thy task: now return to thy  place and do penance; for no one knows of thy  departure.” There are various medieval retell -  ings of the legend, the most famous being a  Dutch version.  See also:   virgin mary  Beauty   and   the   Beast   Popular   folktale  found in many parts of the world, telling how a  woman’s devotion frees a prince who had been  magically transformed into a beast. Beauty, the  heroine, is the youngest daughter of a merchant  who has lost his fortune. As he departs on a  journey, he asks his daughters what they want  him to bring them. His two elder daughters ask  for expensive gifts, but Beauty asks for a rose.  The merchant’s trip is a failure, and he is unable  to buy gifts for his daughters. As he approach -  es home, he passes a garden and remembers  Beauty’s request. Impulsively, he plucks a rose.  Suddenly the Beast appears and confronts the  merchant for stealing the rose. He tells the mer -  chant that to avoid punishment he must send  the Beast one of his daughters to be a hostage.  Beauty volunteers to go to the palace and serve  as hostage to the Beast. While she is there, she  begins to realize that the Beast is really a kind  and generous being. She asks permission to go  home to see her father, who is now sick, and  promises to return soon. When she overstays,  the Beast begins to grow sick, and is in danger  of dying. She discovers this by looking into a   62   beast epic

=== 페이지 180 ===
magic mirror, and she returns to the Beast’s  palace. She tells the Beast that she loves him,  thus breaking the spell and freeing the prince.  The most famous telling of the tale is by Mme  Leprince de Beaumont, though Perrault’s   Riquet  à la houppe,   the Grimms’   Frog Prince,   and the  British   The Well at the World’s End   are other well-  known versions. The folktale is found in Basque,  Swiss, German, English, Italian, Portuguese,  Lithuanian,   Estonian,   Spanish,   Hungarian,  Greek, Slavic, Rumanian, Catalan, Indian, and  Kaffir collections. Ravel’s ballet   Mother Goose  has a Beauty and the Beast episode. Cocteau’s  film   Beauty and the Beast,   with music by Georges  Auric, is a well-known film version, as is the 1991  Disney production. The musical   The Phantom of  the Opera,   with music by Andrew Lloyd Webber  and lyrics by Charles Hart, as well as the movie  King Kong,   a 2005 remake of the original 1933  King Kong   film about a fictional giant ape called  Kong, are other adaptations of a tale of a beauty  who comes to love a beast. The Beauty and the  Beast is Tale Type 425C.  See   also:   grimm   brothers;   perrault,  charles; tale type  beaver   Gnawing mammal with a broad, flat,  naked tail and webbed hind feet. In ancient  Roman   folk   belief,   as   recorded   in   Pliny’s  Historia Naturalis,   the beaver would castrate  itself when pursued by a hunter, knowing that  the hunter only wanted its testicles, which con -  tained a magical medicine. Medieval Christians  who read Pliny’s work took up the belief and  gave it symbolic meaning. For them the beaver  symbolized the sinner who should cut off his  sinfulness (testicles) and throw them at the  devil (the hunter).  Bede the Venerable, St.   (prayer)   (673–735)  In Christian legend, Doctor of the Church.  Author of the   Ecclesiastical History of the English  People,   a record of the conversion of England to  Christianity as well as a secular history of the  island. Feast, 27 May.  In the conclusion to his major work (he  also wrote saints’ lives and commentaries on  the Bible) Bede says he was a “priest of the  monastery of the blessed apostles, Peter and  Paul, which is at Wearmouth [now Monkwear -  mouth] and Jarrow.” He was born in the neigh -  borhood of the monastery and was sent there  to live at the age of seven. He “wholly applied”  himself to study of the Bible and “took delight  in learning, teaching, and writing.” When he  was 19 years old he was made a deacon and  became a priest when he was 30 years old. In  his   Vita sancti Cuthberti   Bede tells the story of  how Cuthbert saved monks from drowning. He  describes how the legend circulated orally for  generations among the local populace before  Bede heard it in a live performance.  According to legend, Bede died while dic -  tating the last words of his translation of the  Gospel According to St. John. His title “Ven -  erable” is a term of respect often bestowed  on members of religious orders in his time.  There is a legend, however, with a different  accounting for the title. A priest, wishing to  put an inscription on his tomb, left out a word,  since he could not find a suitable one. At night  an angel came and wrote   venerabilis   (vener -  able). In   The Divine Comedy   (Heaven, canto  10) Dante places St. Bede, together with St.  Isidore of Seville and St. Richard, among the  great Doctors of the Church in the Heaven of  the Sun.  In Christian art St. Bede is portrayed as an  old monk writing at his desk with a quill.  See also:   cuthbert, st.; doctors of the  church; peter, st.; paul, st.  Bedivere,   Sir   (birch   hero)   In   Arthurian  legend, a knight of the Round Table, the butler  and staunch supporter of King Arthur. He was  present at the last battle between King Arthur Beaver   (Konrad Gesner)  Bedivere, Sir    63

=== 페이지 181 ===
and Mordred. At the request of the dying king,  Bedivere threw the sword Excalibur into the  lake. Afterward he bore the king’s body to the  three fairy queens, who set it on a barge for  Avalon.  See   also:   arthur;   avalon;   excalibur;  round table  bee   Any of a large group of four-winged  insects, usually with a sting, sacred to many  gods and goddesses in world mythology. In  Greek mythology Zeus, the sky god, was some -  times called Melissaios (bee-man) in the myth  that he had a son by a nymph, who, fleeing the  wrath of Hera, Zeus’s wife, hid their child in the  wood, where his father sent him food by bees.  The bee was also sacred to the Greek goddess  Artemis in her role as orgiastic nymph. It was  identified with Demeter in Greek mythology  and with Cybele in Roman mythology as a sign  of productivity. Vishnu, Krishna, and Indra in  Hindu mythology are called Madhava (nectar-  born ones) and are often portrayed with a bee  resting on a lotus flower. Karma, the Hindu  god of love, has a bowstring made of bees.  Christianity also adopted the bee as a symbol.  St. John Chrysostom (golden-mouthed) was  born, according to legend, with a swarm of  bees hovering around his mouth to symbolize  the sweetness of his preaching. The same leg -  end is told of St. Ambrose and St. Bernard of  Clairvaux, both noted preachers. The bee was  the emblem of Napoleon I.  Various   accounts   are   given   of   the   bee’s  origin   in   world   folklore.   Medieval   German  Christians believed that bees were created by  God to supply wax for church candles. In a  Breton belief, bees were created from the tears  of Christ on the cross. The most common  story, however, given in Vergil’s   Fourth Georgic,  is that bees are produced from decaying oxen.  This belief, also expressed by Aristotle, arose  because the rib cage of a dead ox provided a  perfect natural frame for a beehive.  Another common belief is that bees had  to be informed of the death of their keeper  or they would leave or die. In Mark Twain’s  Huckleberry Finn   Jim tells Huck: “If a man  owned a beehive and the man died, the bees  must be told it before sun-up next morning, or  else the bees would all weaken down and quit  work and die.” This belief may stem from the  ancient belief that bees were the messengers of  the gods, announcing the arrival of the dead in  the underworld. There are numerous motifs  associated with bees in the   Motif Index of Folk  Literature.  See also:   ambrose, st.; artemis; bernard  of clairvaux; demeter; hera; indra; john  chrysostom, st.; karma; vishnu; zeus  beetle   An insect having hard, horny front  wings that cover the membranous flight wings.  In Egyptian mythology, the beetle, or scarab, is  a common symbol of spontaneous creation and  regeneration, often associated with the great god  Ra and his various manifestations. In Christian  belief, the beetle has often been identified with  the devil. Irish Christians, for example, see the  darbhodaol, a species of long black beetle, as a  devil that has eaten the souls of sinners.  See also:   ra  Befana   In medieval Italian folklore, a good  fairy who gives gifts to children on Epiphany,  6 January, or Twelfth Night. Her name is a  corruption of the word   Epiphany.   According  to legend, Befana was too busy with house  affairs to look after the Magi when they passed  on their way to visit the Christ Child. She  said she would wait for their return, but they  went another way. Every Twelfth Night she  watches, hoping to see them. In accordance  Beetle   (Konrad Gesner)   64   bee

=== 페이지 182 ===
with folkloric custom, on Twelfth Night after  the children are in bed, someone enters their  rooms, leaving the gifts, and the children say,  “ Ecco la Beffana. ”  See also:   magi  Begochiddy   (one   who   grabs   breasts)   In  North American Indian mythology (Navaho),  great creator god. He was put in charge of  game and domesticated animals. He has inter -  course with everything, giving birth to mon -  sters. His name comes from his practice of  sneaking up on young girls and grabbing them  by the breasts, shouting “be’go be’go.” He is  also known for grabbing hunters by the tes -  ticles just as they are about to shoot an animal.  Bego Tanutanu   (Bego the maker)   In Mel-  anesian mythology, creator god and culture hero  who formed the land and taught various arts.  Bego’s wife put limits to the sea, but when she  was seen by her grandsons, she caused a flood.  Behdety   (he   [i.e.,   Horus]   of   Behdet)   In  Egyptian   mythology,   the   winged   sun   disk,  combining the sun with the falcon as the two  highest soaring bodies known to the ancient  Egyptians.   Later   assimilated   with   the   god  Horus, the winged sun disk is a frequent motif  found at the top of funerary stelae. The cult  was localized in the district of Edfu, called  Apollinolis   Magna   by   the   ancient   Greeks,  who equated this disk with their god Apollo.  See also:   apollo; horus  Bel   (lord, master)   In Near Eastern mythol -  ogy (Babylonian-Assyrian), earth god; a form  of the title Baal (lord) applied to various gods,  especially to Enlil, the lord of the underworld,  and to Marduk, the patron god of Babylon.  Bel, as god of the earth, was associated with  Anu, as god of heaven, and Ea, as god of the  watery deep, forming a triad that embraced  the whole universe. When the three gods were  invoked, it was equivalent to naming all of the  powers that influenced the fate of man. Bel’s  wife was the goddess Belit.  The tale of   Bel and the Dragon,   which is part  of the Old Testament Apocrypha, tells how the  Hebrew prophet Daniel proved to King Cyrus  of Persia that a statue of Bel could not possibly  eat the food provided for it.  Every day, according to the tale, the statue  of the god was provided with “twelve great  measures of fine flour, and forty sheep, and  six vessels of wine.” The king would come to  the temple and worship the idol. One day he  said to Daniel, “Why dost not thou worship  Bel?”  Daniel replied: “Because I may not worship  idols made with hands, but the living God, who  hath created the heaven and the earth, and hath  sovereignty over all flesh.”  “Thinkest thou not that Bel is a living god?”  said the king. “Seest thou not how much he  eateth and drinketh every day?”  Then Daniel laughed, saying the king was  deceived, that the idol did not eat any food  because it was made of clay and brass. The king  then got angry and called his priests.  “If ye tell me not who this is that devoureth  these expenses, ye shall die. But if ye can certify  me that Bel devoureth them, then Daniel shall  die; for he hath spoken blasphemy against Bel.”  The priests and Daniel agreed to a contest.  Food and wine were brought to the chamber.  The priests, however, had a private entrance  under   the   table   by   which   each   night   they  entered with their wives and children, eating  all of the food. Daniel knew of this and asked  that his servants bring ashes and strew them  throughout all of the temple in the presence  of the king alone before the room was sealed.  When they went out, the door was sealed with  the king’s signet.  That night the priests came with their wives  and children and ate the food. When the king  and Daniel returned the next morning they  opened the seal. The king looked at the table  and said, “Great art thou, O Bel, and with thee  is no deceit at all.”  Then Daniel said to the king: “Behold now  the pavement, and mark well whose footsteps  are these.”  Bel    65

=== 페이지 183 ===
“I see the footsteps of men, women, and  children,” the king replied.  Angry at being deceived by his priests, “the  king slew them, and delivered Bel into Daniel’s  power, who destroyed him and his temple.”  According to ancient historians, however, it  was not Daniel, the Hebrew prophet, but King  Xerxes, a pagan, who destroyed Bel’s temple.  See also:   baal; belit; daniel; ea; enlil;  marduk  Belial   (worthless, useless)   In the Bible, O.T.,  a good-for-nothing or scoundrel is called a “man  of Belial” (1 Sam. 20:1, 30:22). In the New  Testament, however, the term is used for the  opponent of Christ, or the devil (2 Cor. 6:15).  St. Paul in 2 Corinthians (6:15) writes: “And  what concord hath Christ with Belial.” Most  biblical commentators assume the reference to  Belial to be another name for Satan, since vari -  ous apocryphal books use Belial as the name of  a demon or the name of the Antichrist. In   Das  Buch Belial   by Jacobus de Theramo, Belial is the  official lawyer of the devils. He appears before  God and demands that the deeds of Christ be  investigated. King Solomon, who was noted for  his wisdom, is chosen by God to be the judge of  the case. Moses is chosen by Jesus as the lawyer  to defend him. Belial accuses Jesus of tamper -  ing with the infernal machinery of the world,  usurping the powers of the devil, since not only  hell but the seas, the earth, and “all beings that  inhabit it” are under his control now. To influ -  ence his case Belial does a dance for King Solo -  mon. The king, unmoved, favors Jesus. Belial  does not give up; he appeals the case, and with  Joseph, the patriarch of the Old Testament, as  judge, Christ is found guiltless, but Belial is given  power over the damned on Judgment Day.  In Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 1:490–492)  Belial is a “lewd” spirit who loves “vice for it  self.” Victor Hugo, in his novel   The Toilers of the  Sea,   credits Belial with being hell’s ambassador  to Turkey.  See also:   moses; paul, st.; satan; solomon  Belin   (bright?)   In medieval British legend, the  21st of the mythical kings of Britain. Belin fought  with his brother Brennius over the inheritance  of the kingdom, but their mother, Conwenna,  persuaded them to join forces to fight against  the Romans. Belin is credited with building the  Tower of London. His ashes are said to have been  placed in a golden urn at the top of the tower.  See also:   conwenna  Belinus   (Belenos)   (bright)   In   Celtic   mythol -  ogy, a British sun god whose cult reached from  Italy to the British Isles; son of Ana; husband  of Don; father of Caswallacon, Llevelys, Lludd,  and Nynnyan; who in later medieval legend is  called King Belinus and appears in Geoffrey  of Monmouth’s   History of the Kings of Britain.  Belinus may be a variant of Bile, a Celtic god  of the dead, to whom human sacrifices were  made. Some ancient commentators linked him  with Apollo  See also:   apollo; beltaine; lludd; nudd  Belisama   In Celtic mythology, among the  British   Celts,   tutelary   goddess   of   the   river  Ribble. The name was given to the goddess by  ancient Roman writers, who identified her with  their goddess Minerva.  See also:   minerva  Belisarius   (sixth   century   c.e. )   In   Eastern  history and legend, general of the emperor  Justinian who defended the Roman Empire Belial   66   Belial

=== 페이지 184 ===
against Vandals and Goths. He was charged  by his enemies with conspiracy, imprisoned,  and later freed. Legend, however, says that  he died blind and a beggar. David’s painting  Give Belisarius a Penny   is based on this legend.  Robert   Graves’s   novel   Count   Belisarius   also  deals with the general.  Belit   In Near Eastern mythology (Babylonian-  Assyrian), wife of the great god Bel. Among her  many titles were Nin-khar-sag (lady of the high  or great mountain), referring to the mountain  of the gods; Nin-lil (mistress of the lower  world); Nunbar-Segunnu, goddess of agricul -  tural fertility; Nisaba, goddess of wisdom; and  Haya, goddess of direction. Belit was often  equated with Ishtar.  See also:   bel; ishtar  Bellerophon   (he who slays the monster)   In  Greek mythology, a hero, son of Glaucus of  Corinth or Poseidon and Eurymede; brother  of   Deliades;   grandson   of   Sisyphus;   married  Philinoe; father of Deidameia, Hippolochus,  Islander, and Laodameia.  Bellerophon was a virtuous man who was  betrayed   by   a   spurned   love.   According   to  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 6), Antaea, wife of King  Proteus, had a mad passion for Bellerophon,  but   Bellerophon,   being   a   man   of   honor,  would not have an affair with another man’s  wife. Antaea, furious at the rejection, told  her husband lies about Bellerophon, that he  had attempted to rape her, and begged the  king to have Bellerophon killed. Proteus, who  abhorred violence, demurred, but to placate  Antaea, he agreed to send Bellerophon to her  father, king of Lycia, to be dealt with. Bellero -  phon was sent to Lycia with sealed letters to  the king telling of his alleged crime and beg -  ging Antaea’s father to see to his punishment.  Accordingly, Bellerophon was sent out to slay  the Chimera, a fire-breathing monster—lion  in   front,   serpent   behind,   and   goat   in   the  middle. Bellerophon succeeded with the aid  of his winged horse, Pegasus. He then went  on to conquer the Solymi and the Amazons.  Later he married Philline and had children.  Pindar adds to the Homeric account by telling  how Bellerophon, proud of his feats, wanted  to mount to heaven on Pegasus, but Zeus  drove the horse insane with a gadfly and Bel -  lerophon fell to earth and died.  Bellerophon   appears   in   Edward   Young’s  Night Thoughts,   William Morris’s “Earthly Par -  adise,” and George Meredith’s “Bellerophon.”  In   Paradise Lost   (book 7) Milton asks his Muse  Urania, who has helped him soar “above the  flight of Pegasean wing,” to descend again:  .   .   . up led by thee  Into the Heav’n of Heav’ns I have  presum’d  An earthlie Guest, and drawn Empyreal  Aire,  Thy tempring; with like safeties guided  down  Return me to my Native element:  Lest from this flying Steed unrein’d,  (as once  Bellerophon, though from a lower Clime)  Dismounted, on th’ Aleian Field I fall  Erroneous, there to wander and forlorne.  The   phrase   “letters   of   Bellerophon”   is  sometimes applied to documents that are dan -  gerous or prejudicial to the bearer.  See also:   amazons; chimera; deidameia;  glaucus;   iliad,   the;   laodameia;   pegasus;  poseidon; proteus; sisyphus; zeus  Belle Starr   (1848–1889)   In American his -  tory and folklore, popular name of Myra Belle  Shirley, the Queen of the Bandits and Petticoat  of the Plains. Her father, John Shirley, married  Eliza Pennington of the Hatfield family (from  the Hatfield-McCoy feud). The leader of a  band of cattle rustlers, horse thieves, and bank  robbers, she rode the Owlhoot Trail, where she  was ambushed and killed. Her boyfriend was  Cole Younger, a member of Jesse James’s gang  Belle Starr    6 

=== 페이지 185 ===
of robbers. The chorus of a ballad about her  concludes with:  Belle Starr, Belle Star, with a bullet in  your back  Are you lyin’ there a-wishin’ that you’d  never joined that pack?  Her life and legend appeared in Richard  E. Fox’s   Belle Starr, the Bandit Queen: Or, the  Female Jesse James,   as well as a Hollywood  movie,   Belle Starr,   with Gene Tierney, which  presents a laundered version of her life.  See also:   hatfields and mccoys; jesse james  Bellona   (war)   In Roman mythology, ancient  Italian war goddess, wife or sister of Mars (or  Quirinus), identified by the Greeks with Enyo.  Bellona’s temple, which was situated on the  Campus Martius, was used for meetings of the  senate when it dealt with foreign ambassadors or  Roman generals who claimed a triumph (a festal  procession, the highest honor accorded a com -  mander) on their return from war. Without per -  mission the generals were not allowed to enter  the city. The Columna Bellica (pillar of war)  stood nearby. It was from near Bellona’s temple  that the Fetialis threw his lance when declaring  war. The cult of the war goddess Bellona, how -  ever, seems to have been confused with another  Bellona, a goddess brought from Comana in  Cappadocia towards the beginning of the first  century   b.c.e.   This goddess was worshipped in  a different locality and with a service conducted  by Cappadocian priests and priestesses. During  the festivals of the goddess these Bellondrii  moved through the city in procession, dressed  in black and shedding their blood by wounding  themselves in the arms and loins with a two-  edged ax. Drums and trumpets were part of  the ritual. Her festival date was 3 June. Bellona  appears in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 8).  See also:   aeneid, the;   mars  Belly   and   Its   Members,   The   Aesopic  fable   found   in   various   collections   of   fables  throughout the world.  It is said that in former times the various  members of the human body did not work  together as amicably as they do now. On one  occasion the members began to be critical of  the belly for spending an idle life of luxury  while they had to spend all of their time labor -  ing for its support and ministering to its wants  and pleasures.  The members went so far as to decide to  cut off the belly’s food supplies for the future.  The hands were no longer to carry food to the  mouth, nor the mouth to receive it, nor the  teeth to chew it.  But, lo and behold, it was only a short time  after they had agreed on this course of starving  the belly into subjection that they all began,  one by one, to fail and flop, and the whole body  started to waste away. In the end the members  became convinced that the belly also, cumber -  some and useless as it seemed, had an important  function of its own and that they could no more  exist without it than it could do without them.  Moral:   As in the body, so in the state, each  member in his proper sphere must work for the  common good.  The fable occurs in Plutarch’s life of Corio -  lanus and is important in the second scene of  Shakespeare’s play   Coriolanus,   based on Plutarch.  Similar fables occur in Egypt and India (in the  great epic poem   The Mahabharata ), in Buddhis -  tic sources, and in Jewish ones, where it is told  in a rabbinic commentary on Psalm 39. St. Paul  may have had a similar fable in mind when he  wrote 1 Corinthians, in which he compares the  church to the body of Christ (12;12–26).  See also:   aesopic fables;   mahabharata  Belshazzar   (may Bel protect the king)   In  the Bible, O.T., last Babylonian king, killed in  the sack of the city by Cyrus II in 539   b.c.e.  Belshazzar gave a great feast (Dan. 5) for his  court,   using   golden   vessels   that   his   father,  Nebuchadnezzar, had taken from the temple  in Jerusalem. As the party progressed, a hand  wrote on the wall:   Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin.  Wanting to know what these words meant,  the king called his astrologers, magicians, and   6    Bellona

=== 페이지 186 ===
soothsayers. None of them could translate the  words. Then Daniel, the Hebrew prophet, was  called in. He told Belshazzar the words meant  that he was “weighed in the balances and art  found wanting” (Dan. 5:27), and his kingdom  would be destroyed. That night the Medes  invaded the city, killing Belshazzar, and Darius  the Persian came to the throne. Our common  expression “the writing on the wall” comes from  this passage. The legend inspired Rembrandt’s  painting   Belshazzar’s Feast,   Handel’s oratorio  Belshazzar,   and William Walton’s   Belshazzar’s  Feast.   In modern German, a   Menetekel   is a  warning sign, a portent.  See also:   nebuchadnezzar  Beltaine   (Beltane,   Baltein,   Bealtuinn,  Beltan)   In Celtic mythology, a feast held at  the spring equinox in early May, which may  or   may   not   derive   from   the   veneration   of  Belinus. Part of the rituals associated with the  day consisted of bonfires and the sacrifice of a  man who represented the Oak King. In Ireland  the feast was called Samradh or Cetsamain; in  Wales it was Cytenfyn.  See also:   belinus  Bendis   In Greek mythology, a Thracian god -  dess of the moon, identified by the Greeks with  Artemis, Hecate, and Persephone. Bendis’s wor -  ship was introduced into Attica by Thracians  and was very popular during Plato’s time. A  public festival called the Bendideia was held  annually at which there were torch races and a  solemn procession of Athenians and Thracians  at the Piraeus, a promontory outside Athens.  See also:   artemis; hecate; persephone  Benedict,   Ruth   American   anthropologist  who published studies of Zuni myths and was  able to point out how some elements in the sto -  ries “tally with the culture” and others do not.  She found that the “roles of men and women  in Zuni life, the role of the priesthood, the  conduct of sex life, the concern with witchcraft,  are all faithfully indicated.” However, she also  found that some of the realities portrayed in  the stories prevailed in the past, but were no  longer practiced today. She attributed such dif -  ferences in some cases to “cultural lag,” but in  other cases she attributes this to fantasy, such  as   polygamy,   child   abandonment,   and   even  violence. Benedict says that these motifs have  psychological significance because they reflect  collective anxieties that come from culturally  imposed behavioral norms and expectations.  Benedict, St.   (blessed)   (480–543)   In Chris-  tian legend, father of Western monasticism.  Patron saint of coppersmiths and schoolchil -  dren. Invoked against fever, gallstones, nettle  rash, poison, and witchcraft, by servants who  have broken their employer’s possessions, and  by the dying. Feast, 21 March.  Benedict was born of a noble family in  Spoleto and sent to study in Rome, where he  showed great scholarly promise. However, he  was disgusted by the life of the clergy, who  lived in debauchery. To escape he became a  hermit at the age of 15. His nurse, Cyrilla,  who was always with him, tried to follow, but  Benedict escaped, hiding in the wilderness of  Subiaco. Here, according to numerous leg -  ends, he underwent many temptations from  the devil. Once the devil tried to distract him  with the vision of a beautiful woman, but the  saint, to avoid falling into sin, threw himself  on a thicket of briars and arose “bleeding, but  calm.”   Another   time   the   devil   transformed  himself into a blackbird and began to flut -  ter around Benedict. Although the saint was  hungry, he did not reach out for the bird. In  fact, he was suspicious of the creature and  made the sign of the cross. The bird instantly  disappeared.  Despite the annoyances from the devil, the  saint founded 12 monasteries with the help of  St. Maurus and St. Placidus, sons of Roman  senators. Both afterward became famous. St.  Maurus   introduced   the   Benedictine   rule   in  France; St. Placidus brought it to Sicily, where  his sister St. Flavis joined him and was mar -  tyred   with   him.   His   sister,   St.   Scholastica,  founded a similar order for nuns.  Benedict, St.    6 

=== 페이지 187 ===
St.   Gregory   the   Great,   in   his   Dialogues  (book 2), records a legend about Mount Cassino  (destroyed in World War II by Allied bombers  because it was a Nazi stronghold). The devil,  since he could not get anywhere tempting the  flesh of St. Benedict, decided he would obstruct  his efforts to build a monastery on the site of  the temple of Apollo. One day the builders went  to carry a stone prepared for a certain part of  Mount Cassino, but when they attempted to lift  it, they found it was too heavy. They went to  Benedict, who immediately saw that the devil  was holding the stone down. He made the sign  of the cross over the stone and picked it up all  by himself. The stone, St. Gregory informs his  readers, can still be seen at the monastery.  Another legend recorded by St. Gregory  tells how a novice, in clearing the banks of a  lake, accidentally lost his ax head, which flew  off its handle and into the water. Benedict  went at once to the lake and held the wooden  handle in the water; the iron ax head rose to the  surface and fitted itself firmly onto the handle.  The miracle is similar to that of Elisha in the  Old testament (2 Kings 6:5–7).  A much later legend tells how he healed  Bruno, later Pope Leo IX, of toad poison by  touching the boy’s lips with a crucifix.  In   Christian   art   St.   Benedict   is   usually  shown   bearded,   generally   in   a   black   Bene -  dictine habit but sometimes the white one of  the reformed order. He holds an asperges for  sprinkling holy water on people possessed by  demons, or a pastoral staff, signifying his posi -  tion as an abbot. Sometimes a raven is shown,  referring to the legend, or a piece of crockery,  which the saint miraculously put together after  it had accidentally been broken by a servant.  See also:   elisha; gregory the great, st.  Benini   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Babylonian), a monster with the face of a bird  or raven. Benini, along with his evil mother,  Melinni, and a host of demonic birds once  attacked Babylon. They were finally defeated  when the proper prayers were said and the  proper sacrifices offered to the gods.  Benjamin   (child of fortune or son of the  right)   In the Bible, O.T. (Gen. 35ff), young -  est son of Jacob and Rachel, who died giv -  ing him birth; brother of Joseph. Benjamin’s  descendants   became   the   tribe   of   Benjamin.  Saul, the first king of Israel, and St. Paul both  descended from the tribe.  See also:   jacob; joseph; paul; saul  Benkei   (12th   century   c.e. )   In   Japanese  folklore, a hero, often called Oniwaka (young  demon).   Benkei   was   the   son   of   a   priest   of  Kumano in Kii. Because of his boisterous nature  he gained the nickname Oniwaka. When he  was 17 years old, he became a wandering priest  and is sometimes portrayed with his head partly  shaven and wearing a hexagonal cap. Often he is  shown blowing on a huge conch shell or inside  a conch shell drinking sake. His most common  form in Japanese art, however, is fighting the  Yamabushis (mountain warrior-priests) or cap -  turing a huge fish in a waterfall. Benkei was said  to be eight feet tall and as strong as 100 men.  Benten   (Bensaiten,   Benten   Sama,   Dai  Bensaiten)   In   Japanese   Shinto-Buddhist  mythology, the only female among the gods of  luck. She is the goddess of love, beauty, music,  and other arts; one of the Shichi Fukujin, gods  of good luck or fortune. Benten was originally  derived from the Hindu goddess Sarasvati, who  was also associated with love, but when her  cult reached Japan, her nature was somewhat  Benjamin   0   Benini

=== 페이지 188 ===
changed. Benten is frequently portrayed with  a Hakuja, a white serpent, and is known as  the White Snake Lady. The snake, aside from  being a symbol of fertility and sexuality, is also  one of the symbols of the sea and thus connects  Benten’s worship with rivers, seas, and water in  general. Belief in the existence of serpent-peo -  ple in the oceans around Japan was common.  The goddess is also invoked for the growth of  rice. Her main seat of worship is a shrine on  Enoshima, near Kamakura, and at Itsukushima,  on Miyajima near Hiroshima.  Benten   is   portrayed   with   four   or   eight  hands, two of which are folded in prayer. Each  remaining hand holds a different symbol, such  as a sword, wheel, ax, rope, bow and arrow,  tama (symbolic jewel of purity), and key. Her  crown varies. Sometimes it has a phoenix on  top, sometimes three flaming jewels or a coiled  white snake with the face of an old man. Often  the goddess is shown playing a   biwa,   a Sino-  Japanese instrument resembling a lute. Benten  is also called Kotokuten (goddess of meritori -  ous works) and Ako Myo-on-ten (goddess of  the marvelous voice). She is also the mother of  15 sons, the Jiugo Doki.  See also:   shichi fukujin  benu   (rise and shine)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, bird identified by the Greeks with the  phoenix. The benu was said to be the oldest  living creature. It created itself from fire that  burned at the top of the sacred persea tree of  Heliopolis. Its cry was the first sound ever  heard and represented the point at which time  began. It was essentially a sun bird, symbol  of both the rising sun and the dead sun god,  Osiris,   from   whose   heart,   in   one   account,  the bird sprang. The benu not only signi -  fied the rebirth of the sun each morning but  became a symbol of the resurrection of man.  The Book of the Dead provides a formula  for enabling the deceased to take the form  of the benu. After Egyptian kings had ruled  for 30 years, they asked the benu for renewed  strength and vitality. According to the Greek  historian Herodotus (book 2), the benu made  its appearance once every 500 years. Its plum -  age was partly golden and partly red, and in  size and form it resembled an eagle. It came  from Arabia and brought with it the body of  its father (which it had enclosed in an egg of  myrrh) to bury at the temple of the sun.  See also:   book of the dead ,   the; osiris;  phoenix  Beowulf   (wolf-of-croft,   bear’s   son;   Anglo  Saxon corn god Beow)   In medieval British  legend, hero of the epic poem   Beowulf,   record -  ed by an unknown monk of Northumbria early  in the eighth century, combining pagan and  Christian   myths   and   legends.   In   the   poem  Heorot, the palace of Hrothgar, king of the  Danes, is visited nightly by a monster named  Grendel, who devours the king’s thanes as they  sleep. Beowulf, the nephew of Hygelac, king  of the Geats (a tribe in southern Sweden or,  according to some scholars, the Jutes), comes  across the sea with 14 followers to free the  Danes from this scourge. After a cordial wel -  come by Hrothgar and his court the visitors are  left alone in the hall for the night. As they sleep,  Grendel enters and devours one of the Geats.  Though invulnerable to weapons, Grendel is  seized by Beowulf and held in a mighty grip,  from which he breaks away only with the loss  of his arm, and he flees to his cavern beneath  the lake to die.  Benten  Beowulf   

=== 페이지 189 ===
There   is   great   rejoicing   in   Heorot   at  Grendel’s death. The minstrels sing lays to  honor Beowulf, and the king loads him with  gifts. But another monster, Grendel’s mother,  still   lives,   and   she   comes   to   the   hall   that  night to avenge her son’s death. She finds  Hrothgar’s   followers   asleep   and   carries   off  one of them, Aeschere, and eats him. Beowulf  pursues the monster to the depths of the lake.  She grapples with Beowulf and drags him into  the cavern beneath the water. A desperate  struggle ensues, in which Beowulf loses his  sword, but the hero finds a magic sword in the  cave and kills Grendel’s mother. Beowulf cuts  off her head and returns to the shore. Again  he is thanked by Hrothgar, and after many  ceremonial speeches, he returns to the palace  of Hygelac.  A long interval ensues, in the course of  which Hygelac and his son Heardred are killed  in battle, leaving the kingdom to Beowulf, who  rules it for 50 years. Then a dragon with a  fiery breath devastates the kingdom. Going out  with 12 followers to kill the monster, Beowulf  is wounded and deserted by all but one of his  comrades. He finally kills the dragon but at  the cost of his own life. His body is burned by  the Geats on a funeral pyre, and the ashes are  enclosed in a barrow.  The burial of Beowulf inspired American  composer Howard Hanson’s   Lament for Beowulf  for chorus and orchestra. Hanson used the  translation of William Morris, the 19th-cen -  tury English poet.  Berenice   (third   century   b.c.e. )   In   Roman  history and legend, wife of Ptolemy III. (There  were, in fact, numerous other Ptolemaic prin -  cesses named Berenice.) She dedicated a lock  of her hair to ensure her husband’s safe return  from a war in Syria. The lock then disappeared.  It was later seen as a group of stars by the royal  astronomer. The “lock of Berenice” is referred  to by Catullus (poem 66) and inspired Pope’s  mock epic   The Rape of the Lock,   in which the  heroine’s curl of hair is also made into a star at  the poem’s conclusion. Berenice also is the name  of a daughter of Herod Agrippa, born 28   c.e.,  who married her uncle and lived incestuously  with her brother. Later she became mistress to  Titus, Emperor Vespasian’s son. When Titus  became emperor, he dismissed her. Berenice  appears in the Acts of the Apostles at St. Paul’s  trial (chap. 25) as Bernice, in Corneille’s   Tite et  Berenice,   and in Racine’s   Berenice.  Bergelmir   (Bergelmer) (mountain old, that  is, the old man of the mountain)   In Norse  mythology, a giant from whom all the frost  giants descended. After the original giants were  destroyed at the death of the primeval giant  Ymir, whose blood flooded the earth, only  Bergelmir survived. He and his wife climbed up  to his boat made of a hollow tree trunk, accord -  Beowulf   (H. J. Ford)   2   Berenice

=== 페이지 190 ===
ing to the   Prose Edda.   Matthew Arnold refers to  the incident in his narrative poem   Balder Dead,  saying that Bergelmir “on shipboard fled.”  See also:   prose edda ; ymir  Bernardino of Siena, St.   (bear-brave)  (1380–1444)   In   Christian   legend,   patron  saint of wool weavers. Invoked against diseases  of chest and lungs. Feast, 20 May.  One of the most notable preachers of the  15th century, St. Bernardino held aloft a tablet  with the carved monogram IHS (a contraction  of the Greek IH εονσ , or Jesus) encircled by rays  when he preached. The   Life of St. Bernardino   by  his contemporary, Barnaby of Siena, tells how  the saint walked on water. Bernardino had to  cross a river to reach Mantua, where he was  to preach. He did not have the money for the  crossing, and the ferryman refused to take him.  The saint took his cloak, cast it on the water,  and sailed away. In Christian art St. Bernardino  is usually shown with the IHS monogram, as in  El Greco’s painting of the saint. Bernardino is  a form of the name Bernard.  Bernardo del Carpio   In medieval Spanish  legend, hero who fought against Charlemagne,  appearing in many Spanish ballads.  Bernardo del Carpio was the illegitimate  son of Doña Ximena, sister of King Alfonso II,  who came to the Visigoth throne about 795.  The king, known as the Chaste because he did  not have intercourse with his wife, had Ximena  locked up in a convent for giving birth illegiti -  mately, and the father of her son, Sancho Diaz,  count of Saldana, was imprisoned and blinded.  (Some Spanish chroniclers gloss over the cruel  incident, alleging that a private marriage took  place between the lovers.)  When   Bernardo   was   grown,   Alfonso,  according to the Spanish chronicles, invited the  emperor Charlemagne into Spain to eventually  become king of Spain, Alfonso being childless.  The   Spanish   nobility,   headed   by   Bernardo,  opposed the alliance, and the king finally gave  in   to   their   wishes.   Charlemagne,   however,  came to Spain to expel the Moors and found  that Alfonso had united with the Moors against  him. A battle took place at Roncesvalles in  which the French were defeated and the hero  Roland was slain. The victory, which in the  Chanson de Roland   is credited to the Moors, was  chiefly due to Bernardo del Carpio.  A Spanish ballad,   The March of Bernardo del  Carpio,   describes the enthusiasm among his  men when Bernardo first raised the standard to  oppose Charlemagne’s army.  “Free were we born,—” ’tis thus they  cry—“though to our King we own  The homage and the fealty behind his  crest to go;  By God’s behest our aid he shares, but  God did ne’er command  That we should leave our children heirs  of an enslaved land” (John Gibson  Lockhart translation).  Bernardo del Carpio    3  St. Bernardino of Siena

=== 페이지 191 ===
Another Spanish ballad,   The Complaint of  the Count of Saldana,   narrates the imprisonment  of Don Sancho, Bernardo’s father; another,  The Funeral of the Count of Saldana,   narrates  the gruesome death of Don Sancho, who was  mounted on his horse after his death and sent  to his son, who did not know his father had  been killed at the orders of King Alfonso.  When Bernardo saw his father he cried out:  “Go up, go up, thou blessed ghost, into  the hands of God;  Go, fear not lest revenge be lost, when  Carpio’s blood hath flowed;  The steel that drank the blood of France,  the arm thy foe that shielded,  Still, father, thirsts that burning lance,  and still thy son can wield it” (John  Gibson Lockhart translation).  A ballad titled   Bernardo and Alfonso   recounts  events taking place after the funeral of Ber -  nardo’s   father.   Bernardo   argues   with   King  Alfonso and leaves the court, going over to the  Moors. The actual end of Bernardo del Carpio,  however, is not known. Bernardo de Balbuena  wrote an epic poem,   El Bernardo, la Victoria  de Roncesvalles,   in which Bernardo is the main  hero. The poem is an imitation of Ariosto’s  Orlando Furioso.   Balbuena was born in Spain  but went to Mexico as a child. He was made  bishop of Puerto Rico in 1620.  See also:   charlemagne  Bernard   of   Clairvaux,   St.   (bear   brave)  (1090–1153)   In Christian legend, patron saint  of beekeepers and wax melters. Doctor of the  Church. Feast, 20 August.  Born of noble parents near Dijon, Bernard  studied at the University of Paris and entered  the Benedictine monastery of Citeaux when  he was 20 years old. A few years later, at the  abbot’s bidding, he set out with 12 monks and  founded another monastery at Clairvaux. He  became one of the most important preachers  of the age. He was in part responsible for the  Second Crusade, which killed more European  Jews than Muslims in the Holy Land. He was  known to have had a fierce debate with Abelard,  whom he hated intensely. Among his numerous  works,   On the Love of God   and his   Commentary  on the Song of Songs   are the best known.  According to legend, when he was writing  his commentary on the Song of Songs in praise  of the Virgin Mary, to whom he was dedicated,  she appeared to him. She moistened his lips  with milk from her bosom, and from that day  he had a supernatural eloquence. Legend also  says the white habit of the Cistercians was cho -  sen by the Virgin Mary herself.  In Christian art St. Bernard is shown in the  white habit of the Cistercians carrying a book  or writing one. Sometimes he is shown pre -  senting his works to the Virgin Mary or being  inspired by her to write them, as in Fra Filippo  Lippi’s painting   The Vision of St. Bernard.  See also:   benedict, st.; virgin mary  berserks   (bear-shirt)   In northern countries,  warriors who wore bear-skin garments ( serkr )  and became possessed during the fury of battle.  The Viennese Mythological School of the 1930s  and 1940s interpreted them as part of ancient  Germanic ecstatic cults. They were dedicated  to the god Odin and believed to be under his  control. They would enter battle, seemingly  impervious to wounds and danger. One medi -  eval Nordic source says they “went without  mailcoats, and were frantic as dogs or wolves;  they bit their shields and were as strong as bears  or boars; they slew men, but neither fire nor iron  could harm them.” This behavior was known  as “running berserk.” In Scandinavian society  berserks were viewed as holy because they were  sacred to Odin. However, the god would at his  will desert them in battle. For this reason Odin  was often called the Arch-Deceiver.  See also:   odin  Bertha   (bright)   In Germanic folklore, one of  the names by which the Norse goddess Frigga  is known. Bertha, sometimes called Brechta   4   Bernard of Clairvaux, St.

=== 페이지 192 ===
(the white lady) or Perchta, is said to live in  the hollow of a mountain in Thuringia, where  she keeps watch over the souls of unbaptized  children. She also watches over plants. She is  said to be the ancestor of numerous European  noble   families.   Charlemagne’s   mother   was  called Berthe aux grande pieds (Bertha with the  large feet) because the continual working of the  foot-treadle on her spinning wheel caused her  feet to flatten, according to medieval legend.  She appears in a 13th-century   chanson de geste  by Adenet le Roi.  Bertha   is   believed   to   appear   as   a   wild  woman with shaggy hair before the death or  misfortune of a family. At Christmastime Ber -  tha is said to pass through village streets during  the 12 nights between Christmas and Epiphany  to see whether spinning is being done. She  rewards some with golden threads or a distaff  of extra-fine flax, but she befouls the dresses of  young girls who do not finish spinning all their  flax on the last day of the year.  Many people eat dumplings or herring on  this day and believe that if they do not, Bertha  will cut their stomachs open, take out the con -  tents, and fill them with straw. She sews up her  incisions with a plowshare and a chain instead  of a needle and thread.  See also:   frigga; twelve nights  Bertoldo   In Italian legend, a clown whose  life is told in   Vita di Bertoldo   by Giulio Caesare  Croce, written in the 16th century. His antics  and those of his son Bertoldina and his grandson  Cacasenno frequently appear in Italian tales.  Bes   In Egyptian mythology, a patron god of  art, music, and childbirth as well as a god of war  and a strangler of antelopes, bears, lions, and ser -  pents; derived from a lion deity. He was a kind of  divine exorcist, driving away evil by dancing and  banging a drum or tambourine. The dual nature  of Bes in Egyptian belief is reflected in the vari -  ous images of the god. Usually he is portrayed  as a dwarf with a huge bearded head, protrud -  ing   tongue,   flat   nose,   shaggy   eyebrows   and  hair, large projecting ears, long thick arms, and  bowed legs. Around his body he wears an animal  skin whose tail hangs down, usually touching  the ground behind him. On his head he wears  a tiara of feathers, which suggests his primitive  nature. In later Egyptian art, however, Bes is  given a handsome body because he absorbed the  character of the sun god and became identified  with Horus the Child as well as Ra and Temu.  As Horus he wore a lock of hair on the right side  of his head, which is the symbol of youth. All of  these images suggest the various phases of the  sun during the day. Bes was frequently portrayed  on steles, vases, and amulets, often in ithyphal -  lic form. His image was hung over headrests as  a charm to keep away evil spirits. His female  counterpart was Beset.  See also:   horus; ra; tem  bestiary   (bestials)   A book of beasts, popular  during   the   Middle   Ages,   containing   natural  history and lore. The bestiary in one form  bestiary    5  Bes

=== 페이지 193 ===
or another is found in major languages: Old  English, Arabic, Armenian, English, Ethiopic,  French,   German,   Icelandic,   Provençal,   and  Spanish. For medieval man a bestiary was a  serious work of natural history, not a collection  of myths and legends. What information it con -  tained was believed to be factually true. Yet the  medieval mind was not satisfied with mere facts.  They had to be interpreted. Thus, bestiaries  contain symbolic meanings. In Guillaume’s   Le  Bestiaire Divin   we have an excellent example:  The unicorn represents Jesus Christ, who  took on him our nature in the Virgin’s  womb,   was   betrayed   by   the   Jews,   and  delivered into the hands of Pontius Pilate.  Its one horn signifies the Gospel truth,  that Christ is one with the Father.  The legendary lore of animals often served  as texts for devotional homilies.  Bestla   In Norse mythology, giantess, wife of  Bor; daughter of the giant Bolturon; mother  of the gods Odin, Vili, and Ve. Odin was thus  descended from a giantess on his mother’s side,  which means that the killing of Ymir by Odin  was a killing within the family. Bestla appears  in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   odin; vili;   prose edda  Bevis of Hampton   (dear son)   In medieval  legend, an English hero who converts his pagan  wife,   Josian,   to   Christianity,   defeats   a   host  of enemies, and converts the giant Ascapart  (Asclopard) to Christianity. The tale is slightly  connected to the Charlemagne cycle. Bevis’s  magic sword is called Morglay. His tale is told  in the 14th-century English romance   Bevis of  Hampton   and in Samuel Drayton’s   Poly-olbion.  See also:   charlemagne  Bhaga   In   Hindu   mythology,   a   god   who  bestows   wealth   and   presides   over   marriage.  Bhaga is mentioned in the sacred Vedas, though  her personality and powers are rather indistinct.  See also:   vedas  Bhagavad-Gita   (song of the divine one)   A  dialogue between the hero Arjuna and the god  Krishna, forming part of the Hindu epic poem  The Mahabharata.  Though part of a vast epic poem, the longest  in the world, the Bhagavad-Gita is frequently  found in separate editions. It is the most popu -  lar sacred book of India, even though it is not  part of   shruti,   or revealed writings, but belongs  to   smriti,   or traditional works. The main theme  of the dialogue between Arjuna and his chari -  oteer, Krishna (who is an incarnation of the  god Vishnu), concerns the role Arjuna must  play in the coming battle with the Kauravas, his  enemies but also his relatives. Krishna assures  Arjuna that he should not hesitate to slay his  foes because he is just killing their bodies,  which does not affect the vital principle that  inhabits the body. Throughout the dialogue  Krishna touches on various Hindu beliefs, often  found expressed in the Upanishads. Arjuna, as  a member of the warrior caste, must fulfill his  role in the world, since God himself is tirelessly  engaged in works in order to keep the universe  going. The Gita also declares that the ancient  faith in sacrifice as the sole means of liberation  is no longer valid.  One of the most important sections of the  poem is that in which Arjuna asks Krishna to  reveal himself. There takes place a transfigu -  ration of All-Form-Vision (book 9), in which  Krishna displays his true, godlike nature.  “In him was the whole universe centered in  one,” says the Bhagavad-Gita. “Endowed with  countless eyes and numberless mouths, and  innumerable faces turned in every quarter, and  blazing with the glory of a thousand arms, with  celestial ornaments and fierce weapons; with  many hands, feet, and organs, with countless  stomachs and fierce and fearful tusks terrible  to behold.”  Arjuna then sees the Kauravas, his enemies,  in Krishna’s mouths, with their hands crushed  to powder. Krishna tells Arjuna to worship him  by fixing his heart and thought on Krishna. At  the conclusion of the work (book 18) Arjuna  says:   6   Bestla

=== 페이지 194 ===
Trouble   and   ignorance   are   gone!   The  Light Hath come unto me, by Thy favor,  Lord! Now am I fixed! My doubt is fled  away! According to Thy word, so will I do!  (Edwin Arnold translation)  There is a version of the Bhagavad-Gita in  which the name Ganesha, the elephant-headed  god of wisdom and good fortune, is substituted  for that of Krishna. It is called Ganesha-Gita  and is used by the Ganapatyas (worshippers of  Ganesha), who see their god as the supreme  being.  See also:   arjuna; ganesha; krishna;   mahab -  harata, the ; upanishads; vishnu  bhakti   (be devoted to)   In Hinduism, the love  existing between the human soul and the divine.  Bhakti yoga is one of the ways of achieving this  union. Bhakti is associated with the doctrine of  liberation by faith, as opposed to the Vedic doc -  trine of liberation through works or knowledge.  Bharata   In Hindu mythology, the name of  an Aryan tribal group prominent in early vedic  times; also a king devoted to the worship of the  god Vishnu. He abdicated his throne to con -  tinue in constant meditation on the god.  While Bharata was at his forest retreat, he  went to bathe in the river and saw a pregnant  doe frightened by a lion. Her fawn, which  was born suddenly, fell into the water, and  Bharata rescued it. He brought up the animal,  becoming very fond of it and forgetting his  worship of Vishnu. When Bharata died, he was  transformed into a deer, with the faculty of  remembering his former life as a punishment  for forgetting to honor Vishnu. Bharata con -  tinued in his deer form and atoned for his sin,  being born again as a priest who was ungainly  and looked as if he were a madman. In his new  life he constantly worshipped Vishnu and as a  result was exempt from future births.  Another Bharata is the ancestor of the war -  ring sides, the Pandavas and Kauravas, in the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata.  See also:   mahabharata, the ; vishnu  Bhavacakra   In Buddhism, the Wheel of Life  or Existence, used to bring before the mind the  nature of existence. The wheel is portrayed  as being whirled around by a monster, who  symbolizes the limitations of human existence.  Outside the wheel the Buddha is portrayed to  show the release. In some versions the Buddha  is also portrayed within the wheel, symbolizing  the accessibility of Buddhist teachings to all  beings. The segments of the wheel depict the  levels of rebirth as a human, an animal, a god,  or other form of life.  bhikkhu   (bhikshu)   In Buddhism, one who  has devoted his life to the following of the  Eightfold Path by renunciation and relies for  his   livelihood   on   gifts   of   lay   disciples,   in  return for which he preaches and gives counsel.  Often the term— bhikku   in Pali and   bhikshu   in  Sanskrit—is translated into English as monk,  mendicant, friar, or priest. The female equiva -  lent is   bhikkhuni   or   bhikshuni.  Bhima   (the terrible)   In the Hindu epic poem  The Mahabharata,   a hero, second of the five  Pandu brothers. Bhima, the son of Vayu, the  wind god, had great strength but was of a fierce  and often cruel nature. His coarse manners  earned for him the title Vrikodara (wolf’s belly)  because he ate more food than all of his broth -  ers combined. One episode in   The Mahabharata  tells how his cousin Dur-yodhana, jealous of his  great strength, poisoned him and threw his body  in the Ganges. He was bitten by the Nagas, but  the poison in his blood neutralized their venom  and he recovered. The Nagas then gave him  eight jars of nectar, which he drank, giving him  great strength. Bhima then kicked the head of  his prostrate enemy, Dur-yodhana, earning him  the title Jihma-yodhin (the unfair fighter).  See also:   dur-yodhana;   mahabharata, the ;  vayu  Bhishma   (the terrible)   In the Hindu epic  poem   The Mahabharata,   a hero, commander-  in-chief of the Kauravas in the war with the  Bhishma   

=== 페이지 195 ===
Pandavas.   Bhishma   taught   the   children   of  both sides, the Kauravas and Pandavas, but  when the war broke out between the two  sides, he took the part of the Kauravas. He  laid down some rules for mitigating the hor -  rors of the war, stipulating that he should  not be called on to fight Arjuna, the Pandu  prince and main hero of the poem. However,  Bhishma was goaded by one of the Kauravas  to fight against Arjuna; their encounter took  place on the 10th day of battle. Bhishma was  pierced with so many arrows that there was no  space for a finger’s breadth. When he fell from  his chariot, he was held up from the ground  by the arrows in his body. He lived for some  58 days more because he had determined the  hour of his death. During that time he deliv -  ered several long didactic discourses, which  make up part of the epic poem. Bhishma is  also called Talaketu (palm banner), referring  to his banner symbol.  See also:   arjuna;   mahabharata, the  Bhrigu   In Hindu mythology, a Prajapati,  a son of the god Brahma, sent by the priests  to test the characters of various gods. Bhrigu  could not get to see Shiva because the god  was   making   love   to   his   wife.   As   a   result,  Bhrigu, “finding him, therefore to consist of  the property of darkness,” sentenced Shiva  “to take the form of the Linga (phallus) and  pronounced that he should have no offerings  presented to him, nor receive worship of the  pious   and   respectable.”   Bhrigu’s   next   visit  was to his father, Brahma, whom he saw sur -  rounded by sages and so much inflated by his  own importance as not to pay any attention to  Bhrigu. Brahma was therefore excluded from  worship   by   the   priests.   Next   Bhrigu   went  to Vishnu and found the god asleep. Bhrigu  stamped on Vishnu’s chest with his left foot  and awoke the god. Instead of being offended,  Vishnu gently pressed Bhrigu’s foot and said  he was honored. Bhrigu, pleased by the god’s  humility, proclaimed Vishnu the only being to  be worshipped by men or gods.  See also:   brahma; lingam; shiva; vishnu  Bhuta   In Hindu mythology, a ghost, imp,  or goblin. Bhutas are malignant and haunt  crematoria, lurk in trees, animate dead bodies,  and delude and devour humans. According to  the   Vishnu Purana,   a text in honor of the god  Vishnu, they are “fierce beings and eaters of  flesh” who were created when the Creator  was angry. In another text their mother is said  to have been Krodha (anger). The Bhutas are  attendants on the god Shiva, their lord. The  term   Bhutesa   (lord of beings; lord of created  things) is applied to the gods Vishnu, Brahma,  and Krishna (an incarnation of Vishnu).  See also:   krishna; shiva; vishnu  Bible, The   In Christianity, sacred writings  compiled   from   the   Hebrew   Scriptures   and  various early Christian works. The word   bible   is  derived from the Greek   biblos,   part of an ancient  plant used in making books. The Greek word  biblia,   meaning “the books,” referred to the  Scriptures. The Greek   biblia   (plural) became  the Latin   biblia   (feminine singular), from which  came the English word   bible.  The Catholic Church in the third century  took the Hebrew Scriptures, both the Hebrew  books accepted by all Jews and those written in  Greek and used by some Jews in various parts  of the world, then added various Christian  works, forming the Bible.  The King James, or Authorized, Version,  completed in 1611, is the best-known transla -  tion of the Bible into English, though numer -  ous other versions exist. During the Middle  Ages the common Bible was the Latin transla -  tion called the Vulgate, made by St. Jerome  in the fourth century. It contained books later  rejected by Protestants at the Reformation and  placed in the Apocrypha.  Translations of the Vulgate into some Euro -  pean languages were made during the Middle  Ages. One of the first is ascribed to Caedmon  about   650.   St.   Bede   the   Venerable   made   a  translation of the Gospel According to St. John  about 735. In 825 Anglo-Saxon glosses (marginal  annotations) were made of the Vulgate Gospels  and psalters. Between 890 and 900 King Alfred     Bhrigu

=== 페이지 196 ===
made various translations of selected passages  of the Bible. In the year 1000 the earliest extant  English translation of the four Gospels appeared.  In 1320 William of Shoreham made an English  translation of the Psalms, and Richard Rolle  made an English translation of the Psalms in  1340. The first Wycliffe translation of the whole  Bible appeared in 1384 but was condemned by  the church. A revised version by John Purvey was  made about 1396. Numerous English versions  followed the Reformation, the most famous,  because of its influence on English literature and  life, being the King James Version of 1611.  In Germany the Bible was translated by  Martin Luther between 1522 and 1534. There  had been several prior translations into Ger -  man;   some   were   literal   translations   of   the  Latin Vulgate and were thus not very read -  able. Luther’s Bible was not only closer to the  Hebrew and Greek originals, but also could be  read in both major dialect regions of Germany.  As a result of the recently developed movable  type   procedure,   it   was   possible   to   produce  many copies of the Bible for sale and distribu -  tion. Some records suggest that as many as  100,000 copies appeared during Luther’s time.  The Bible has two major divisions, the Old  Testament, containing the pre-Christian Jew -  ish Scripture, and the New Testament, contain -  ing writings of the early Christian era. Each  division of the Bible consists of many different  books, written by various authors over a long  period of history. In the King James Version  the Old Testament consists of 39 books, the  New Testament, 27. Roman Catholic Bibles  contain the Apocrypha within the Old Testa -  ment. For example, the Catholic New Ameri -  can Bible contains 46 books within the Old  Testament and the same New Testament books  found in the King James Version.  The following books of the Bible are found  in the King James Version:  Genesis   (in the beginning) is the first book  of the Bible, narrating the myths and legends  of the ancient Hebrews from the Creation to  the story of Joseph in Egypt. Genesis forms the  first part of the Law, or Torah or Pentateuch  (five-volume document), which consists of the  first five books of the Bible. The major themes  of Genesis are primeval legends and myths  of humankind (1–11:19) and accounts of the  patriarchs (11:28–50:26), including the legends  of Abraham (11:26–25:10), Isaac (25:11–26:35),  Jacob (27–36), and Joseph (37–50).  Exodus   (going out) continues the tales, leg -  ends, myths, and history of the Hebrews. The  main themes of Exodus are oppression and  deliverance (1–18), including Moses’ call (2–4),  escape from Egypt (5–14), and the wilderness  (14–18); imposing the law through delivering  the   Ten   Commandments   (20);   forming   the  Covenant between God and Israel (21 and 23)  and giving details and specific laws of the tribes;  the Tabernacle at Sinai and the construction of  the Ark (24–40).  Leviticus   consists of ritual laws; its title comes  from the tribe of Levi, the hereditary priests.  Decoration from a 1563 edition of the Bible  Bible, The   

=== 페이지 197 ===
Numbers   is so named because of the two  numberings of the people. It focuses on Moses,  the leader and prophet. The book narrates the  legends of the Hebrews from their second year  in the wilderness to the arrival on the borders  of Moab, close to the Promised Land.  Deuteronomy   (second law) is the last book  of the Pentateuch; the title refers to the rep -  etition by Moses of Yahweh’s commandments.  The book consists almost entirely of discourses  ascribed to Moses by later Hebrew legend.  It narrates a résumé of the wilderness events  (1–4), the Decalogue and other laws (5–26),  the written law (27–28), Moses’ farewell speech  and his charge to Joshua (29:1–31:13), and  Moses’ last days and death (31:14–34:12).  Joshua,   the last of the first six books of the  Bible, called the Hexateuch, is named for the  successor of Moses, who led the Israelites into  Canaan. Its main themes are the conquest of  Canaan (1–12), division of the land (13–22),  and Joshua’s last speech and death (23–24).  Judges   deals   with   the   activities   of   the  “Judges,” or tribal leaders, who ruled between  the entry into Canaan and the establishment  of the monarchy. Its main divisions are intro -  duction   (1–2:5);   the   legends   of   the   judges  (2:6–16:31), telling of Othniel, Ehud, Deborah,  Gideon, Abimelech (antihero), Tola, Jair, Jeph -  tah, Ibzan, Elon, Abdon, and Samson; the con -  quest of Laish by the Danites, who renamed it  Dan; and the sexual abuse of a Levite’s concu -  bine by Benjamites of Gibeah, resulting in her  death and the subsequent war of vengeance by  the rest of the tribes of Israel (17–21).  Ruth   tells a story of the days of the Judges  concerning the family of a man of Bethlehem  who was forced by a famine to migrate to Moab;  his Moabite daughter-in-law Ruth became the  ancestress of King David and, according to  New Testament accounts, also of Jesus.  1 Samuel   records the events leading to the  establishment of the kingdom of Israel and the  reign of Saul, the first king. Its main themes  are legends of Samuel (1–12) and the reign of  Saul (12–31), telling of the conflict of David,  who later became king, and ending with the  killing of Saul and his sons at Gilboa by the  Philistines.  2 Samuel   continues the narrative, telling  of David, who became first king of Judah and  later of all Israel. Its main themes are David’s  attainment of the monarchy (1–10), David and  Bathsheba (11–12), David and his rebel son  Absalom (13–19), and the last events in David’s  life (20–24).  1 Kings   tells of the death of David and  the succession and reign of his son Solomon  (1–11); then of the legends, history, and myths  of Israel and Judah (12–22) after the split of  Israel. Important figures are Ahab, Elijah, and  Elisha.  2 Kings   continues 1 Kings, narrating the end  of the northern kingdom, the reign of Hezekiah  in Judah, and legends and tales of Elisha. The  book ends with the destruction of the southern  kingdom and tells of Josiah and the conquest of  Judah by Babylon.  1   and   2   Chronicles   recapitulate   previous  books,   often   contradicting   information   in  them.  Ezra   tells of Ezra and Nehemiah, who came  back from Babylon with the Jews to rebuild the  Temple.  Nehemiah   continues the legends recorded in  1 and 2 Chronicles as well as in Ezra.  Esther   is a folktale about the Jewess Esther  who married Xerxes, king of Persia, and saved  the Jews from a pogrom. The Jewish feast of  Purim was established to celebrate this deliv -  erance. The next major division of the Bible  consists of the five poetical books, Job, Psalms,  Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and the Song of Solo -  mon or Song of Songs.  Job   tells of a man punished by God, though  he is guilty of no sin. The book explores the  question “Why do the righteous suffer?” but  produces no answers.  Psalms   is a collection of prayers, poems, and  hymns recited and sung in both Jewish and  Christian worship.   0   Bible, The

=== 페이지 198 ===
Proverbs   is a book of sayings illustrating  general truths, using pithy and colorful lan -  guage. It was traditionally ascribed to Solomon  but is written by many other hands.  Ecclesiastes   is filled with skepticism and pes -  simism about the world and its creator. After  it was included in the Bible, it was edited to  soften its harsh message. The next major divi -  sion of the Old Testament contains the Major  and Minor Prophets.  Isaiah   is named for a prophet who warned  Israel of its sin and promised a messiah to  deliver her from her enemies. Isaiah also was a  preacher who used parables, as Jesus did much  later.   Jesus   was   probably   greatly   influenced  by Isaiah and his preaching, since Christians  consider the central message of his prophecy  to be the coming of Jesus. Much of the text of  Handel’s   Messiah   was taken from the Book of  Isaiah. It is now agreed by scholars that Isaiah  wrote only part of the book; his followers wrote  some sections.  Jeremiah   is   named   after   the   prophet.   It  includes his prophecies as well as considerable  biographical material.  Lamentations   consists   of   five   poems   that  have been ascribed to Jeremiah but were not  written by him. They tell of the siege of Jeru -  salem by the Babylonians and are used exten -  sively in Christian liturgy.  Ezekiel   is a long, often tedious work, but it  contains some passages of greatness. Ezekiel  claimed he was commanded to warn Israel  about its rebellion against God. Much of his  prophecy he received through visions, the best  known being his vision of the fiery wheels.  Daniel   contains legends about the prophet  for whom it is named. Daniel was an Israelite  in the land of Persia and came into conflict  with Persian officials when he refused to wor -  ship Persian idols. He was cast into a lion’s den  for his refusal, but the God of Israel protected  Daniel, and he emerged unharmed. It was also  Daniel who correctly interpreted the “writing  on the wall” for King Belshazzar, which pre -  dicted the king’s destruction.  Hosea,   the 28th book and the first of the  Minor Prophets, uses symbolic language, tell -  ing of Hosea’s marriage to a whore, who repre -  sents faithless Israel.  Joel,   the second of the Minor Prophets,  consists of only three chapters in three dis -  courses. It contains no Bible stories in the usual  sense but is largely a series of exhortations for  Israel to repent its sins.  Amos   is the first prophetical book compiled.  It denounces wealth and luxury.  Obadiah   is only 21 verses long. It is a violent  attack on Edom, Israel’s enemy.  Jonah   is a short folktale about the prophet,  in which Jonah causes a tempest at sea when he  flees from God in a boat. When he confesses  he is the cause of the tempest, the mariners cast  him overboard, and he is swallowed by a giant  fish. After Jonah repents, the fish vomits him  out on dry land, and Jonah fulfills his promise  to God and becomes a prophet.  Micah   is ascribed to the prophet Micah,  a   contemporary   of   Isaiah   in   Judah.   Micah  laments the degeneracy of the house of Jacob  and warns against false prophets.  Nahum   is a collection of oracles written  by Nahum, the Elkoshite about 700   b.c.e.   He  warns of punishment for Nineveh for the sins  of its people and predicts that God will rout the  enemies of Israel.  Habakkuk   concerns the threat of the Babylo -  nians to Judah’s security. The prophet rebukes  the Chaldeans for their sins.  Job  Bible, The   

=== 페이지 199 ===
Zephaniah   speaks of the sins of Judah and  predicts God’s severe punishment. He ends  with a vision of the dispersed people of Judah  returning to their own land.  Haggai   is the prophet chosen by God to  encourage the rebuilding of the Temple. He  tells the people that sin impedes their work.  Zechariah   stresses   temple   worship.   He  warns the people of Jerusalem of their pos -  sible destruction and of the vengeance of God  against the enemies of the city.  Malachi   is the last of the Old Testament  prophets. He tells of a time when the prophet  Elijah will return.  The next section of the Bible, which is often  omitted, contains the Apocrypha, those books  rejected by Protestants as not belonging in the  Hebrew Bible because they were written in  Greek and used by Greek-speaking Jews, not  by the Jews in Jerusalem. All the books influ -  enced Christian art, which has used many of  their legends and tales.  The 15 books of the Apocrypha are the fol -  lowing:  1   and   2 Esdras   is a Greek reworking of the  books of Ezra and Nehemiah.  Tobit   is a tale beloved by Martin Luther that  tells of a demon who possesses various people  and of how the angel of the Lord frees them.  Judith   is a short novel of a Jewess who  destroys the enemy by cutting off the head of  their leader.  The Rest of Esther   consists of additions to  the Hebrew Book of Esther in the Bible, giving  more details and dwelling on God and Israel.  The Hebrew Book of Esther never mentions  God.  Wisdom of Solomon   is a collection of prov -  erbs, similar to the Book of Proverbs in the  Old Testament.   Ecclesiasticus   is another wisdom  book.  Baruch   is a short book ascribed to the secre -  tary of the prophet Jeremiah.  Letter of Jeremiah,   a short letter ascribed to  the prophet, ridicules idolatry.  Prayer of Azariah and the Song of the Three  Young Men   gives their prayer, which is not  found in the biblical Book of Daniel.  Susanna   is a short folk tale of a woman vin -  dicated by the prophet Daniel.  Bel and the Dragon   is a short tale of Daniel in  which he shows that idols are not really gods.  Prayer of Manasseh,   a short prayer, is still  used in the Anglican church.  1   and   2 Maccabees   are two books of legends  and history of the Jews.  The next major division in the King James  Bible is the New Testament, which consists of  27 books, all accepted by Christians today. The  first four books are called the Gospels (good  news) and are the Early Church’s view of the  person of Jesus as Messiah and the Son of God.  They are not concerned with history but with  faith, and they rearrange information to suit  the needs of the believing Christians at the  time they were compiled. The four Gospels are  Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.  Matthew,   the   first   but   not   the   oldest  Gospel, is arranged as a teaching manual.  Matthew mentions many Jewish customs and  stresses   that   Jesus   is   the   Jewish   Messiah.  The main divisions of his account are as fol -  lows: Jesus’ birth and childhood (1–2); Jesus’  Susanna   2   Bible, The

=== 페이지 200 ===
baptism (3); Jesus’ temptation (4:1–11); the  beginning of Jesus’ work in Galilee (4:12–25);  the Galilean ministry (5–13), including the  Sermon on the Mount; miracles and teach -  ings (14–20), journey to Jerusalem (21–25);  and the trial, passion, death, and Resurrection  (26–28).  Mark,   the second Gospel but the earliest, is  very short. It was used by Matthew and Luke  when they compiled their own accounts. It  breaks down as follows: Jesus’ baptism and  temptation (1:1–13); Galilean ministry (1:14–  6:6); ministry outside Galilee (6:7–8:21); labors  and instructions (8:22–13:37); and passion and  Resurrection (14–16).  Luke,   the third Gospel, is written in better  Greek than that of either Matthew or Mark. It  gives more details but softens harsh aspects of  the legend. It breaks down as follows: intro -  duction (1:1–4); birth and childhood of Jesus  (1–2); baptism and temptation (3:1–4:13); Gali -  lean ministry (4:14–9:50); journey to Jerusalem  (9:51–21:38); and trial, passion, death, Resur -  rection,   and   Ascension   (22–24).   These   first  three Gospels are called synoptic because they  often use the same material, though they shift  it about for different emphasis.  John,   the last Gospel, is completely differ -  ent in character. In it Jesus speaks like a Greek  philosopher, and little is told of the historical  Jesus. It breaks down as follows: prologue (1:1–  18); narrative demonstrating the Incarnation  (1:19–12:11); and trial, passion and Resurrec -  tion (12:12–21;25).  Acts of the Apostles,   written by the author  of   Luke’s   Gospel,   tells   the   history   of   the  Early Church and the lives of St. Peter and  St. Paul.  The next division of the New Testament  contains   Epistles,   or   letters,   the   majority  ascribed to St. Paul. They are   Romans, 1   and  2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians,  Colossians, 1   and   2 Thessalonians, 1   and   2 Timo -  thy, Titus,   and   Philemon. Hebrews,   ascribed to  St. Paul in the King James Version, was not  written by him. The other letters are   James,  which contradicts St. Paul’s teaching regard -  ing faith and works;   1   and   2 Peter ;   1, 2,   and   3  John,   and   Jude.   The last book of the Bible is  Revelation,   the only prophetic book in the New  Testament. It deals with the end of the world,  the punishment of sinners, and the vindication  of the righteous.  See also:   bede the venerable, st.; david;  jerome, st.; saul; solomon; yahweh  Bicorn   and   Chichevache   In   medieval  French folklore, two animals, one fat and the  other thin. Chichevache (lean cow) lived on  patient   wives   and   was   therefore   very   thin,  whereas   Bicorn   lived   on   patient   husbands  and was well fed. Chaucer’s clerk mentions  Chichevache in the conclusion of his story in  The Canterbury Tales.   Bi-corn (two horns) is an  allusion to the horned cuckold.  See also:   chaucer  Bidental   (struck   by   lightning)   In   Roman  cult, a consecrated spot where lightning had  passed into the ground, where it was forbidden  to walk.  Bifrost   (Bilrost, Bif-raust) (rainbow or quiv -  ering roadway)   In Norse mythology, rain -  bow bridge, made of fire, water, and air, that  led from Asgard, home of the Aesir gods, to  the well of Urd. The   Prose Edda   tells how the  gods made “a bridge from earth to heaven  .   .   . constructed with more art than any other  work. But, strong though it be, it will be  broken to pieces when the sons of Muspell  [the frost giants]), after having traversed great  rivers, shall ride over it.” To delay as much  as possible the end of their existence and  that of the world, the gods ordered the god  Heimdall to be a watchman and inform them  when the frost giants were on their way. It is  here that Surt and the Aesir will do battle at  Ragnarok.  See also:   asgard; heimdall; muspell; ragn -  arok; surt; urd;   prose edda  Bifrost    3

=== 페이지 201 ===
Big Foot   In North American folklore, the  traditional wild man figure, named for the large  footprints the creature purportedly leaves. He  is called Sasquatch in Canada, an anglicization  of a Salish Indian term. The legends are best  known in the Pacific Northwest, both among  lumbermen and Native Americans. The crea -  ture may derive from European legends of a  wild man that have become fused with Native  American   beliefs   in   an   oversized   and   hairy  humanoid.   Descriptions   are   always   similar:  he is large and has hairy, apelike features and  an overpowering stench. Sightings are usually  at the edge of a forest or crossing a road and  come from almost all U.S. states. The wild  man figure is also known elsewhere. The best  known is the Yeti, the Abominable Snowman of  the Himalayas.  Biggarro   In Australian mythology, the wom -  bat snake who aids man to the spirit land, the  Land of Perfection. He is the opposite of the  evil carpet snake, Goonnear.  See also:   goonnear  Big Harpe   In American folklore, a sadistic  outlaw who killed men, women, and children  for pleasure, including his wife and child. He  threw his child against a tree because he was  crying. According to legend, his father was a  British sympathizer during the Revolutionary  War. The brothers Micajah and Wiley Harpe,  Big and Little Harpe, ran away and joined  a   band   of   renegade   Cherokee.   They   were  accused of horse stealing and murdering. They  filled one man with stones and pushed him into  the river and tied another man to his horse and  drove him over a cliff. Harpe was captured by  a posse, and when one man grabbed his hair  and proceeded to cut off his head, Harpe cried  out: “You’re a damned rough butcher, but cut  on and be damned.” Big Harpe’s head was then  stuck in the fork of a tree near Red Bank on the  Ohio River.  Big Owl   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Apache), cannibalistic monster who trans -  fixes his victims with a stare, takes them home,  and eats them. In other accounts, he is the evil  son of the Sun. He kills all people and is killed  in turn by his brother.  Bik’eguidinde   (according to whom there is  life)   In North American Indian mythology  (Mescalero Apache), creator god.  Bil   and   Hjuki   In   Norse   mythology,   the  waxing and the waning moon. The   Prose Edda  says, “One day he [the moon] carried off from  the earth two children, named Bil and Hjuki,  as they were returning from the spring called  Byrgir,   carrying   between   them   the   bucket  called Saegr, on the pole Simul. Vidfinn was  the father of these children, who always follow  Mani [the moon], as we may easily observe  even from the earth.” The image of Bil and  Hjuki, holding their pails, was said to be darkly  outlined on the moon.  Billy Blin   In English and Scottish folklore,  a household spirit who protects the family.  He appears in some Scottish ballads and also  is   called   Billy   Blind,   Belly   Blin,   and   Blind  Barlow.  Billy   Potts   In American folklore, a mur -  derer and robber, said to be a member of the  Cave-in-Rock gang in the Ohio and Mississippi  River area. The gang consisted of Billy, his  mother, and his father. Billy Potts was really  Isaiah Potts, the owner of Potts’s Inn. He had  spotters to tell him who had money so that his  robberies were worthwhile. After one killing,  Potts’s father told him to flee and hide out for  a time. When he returned, he was shot by his  father, who did not recognize him with his new  beard and added weight.  Billy   the   Kid   (1859–1881)   In   American  history and folklore, bandit; popular name of  Henry McCarty, alias Kid Antrim, and William   4   Big Foot

=== 페이지 202 ===
H. Bonney. Born in New York City, his fam -  ily moved to Kansas and then to New Mexico  when he was a child. By the time he was 16 he  was credited with killing 16 men, and at his  death the total was past 20. His personality  affected people differently. To some, he was “a  nondescript, adenoidal, weasel-eyed, narrow-  chested,   stoop-shouldered,   repulsive   looking  creature with all the outward appearance of a  cretin,” whereas others called him “the darling  of the common people.” Pat Garrett, the sher -  iff who finally killed Billy on 14 July, 1881 at  Old Fort Sumner, wrote in his   Authentic Life of  Billy the Kid   that “the Kid had a lurking devil  in him. It was a goodhumored, jovial imp, or a  cruel and blood-thirsty fiend, as circumstances  prompted. Circumstances favored the worser  angel, and the Kid fell.” One ballad says:  There’s many a man with face fine and fair  Who starts out in life with a chance to be  square.  But just like poor Billy, he wanders astray  And loses his life in the very same way.  Although he was no angel, folklore tends to  see Billy the Kid in a kind light. Two Hollywood  films, both called   Billy the Kid,   present roman -  ticized views of the murderer. Other movies  are   Dirty Little Billy   and   Pat Garrett and Billy  the Kid.   Aaron Copland’s one-act ballet   Billy the  Kid   presents the life of Billy the Kid against the  ongoing push of the pioneers, who had to put  down Billy’s lawlessness to achieve civilization.  Bimbo   In Japanese legend, a poor farmer who  was given a son by Raiden, the thunder god.  After 20 years of toil Bimbo owned barely three-  quarters of an acre of land. He had no son and  wished to adopt one. One day, as he was leav -  ing the field, a storm broke, and the lightning  dazzled him. After many invocations to the gods  he started home, then he noticed a little rosy  boy lying on the ground. He picked up the child  and took him to his wife. They called the child  Raitaro in honor of Raiden, the god of thunder,  who had given them this gift. Prosperity fol -  lowed their adoption of the child. When Raitaro  was 18 years old, he took the shape of a dragon  and flew away to a castle formed of clouds, above  the hills. When Bimbo and his wife died, their  grave was marked with the shape of a dragon.  See also:   raiden  Binding of the Years   (new fire ceremony)  Among the Mexica, this ritual ceremony took  place outside of Tenochtitlán when the solar  and the divinatory calendars both ended on the  same day. This coincided with the rising of the  Pleiades and the beginning of the dry season. It  was a pre-Conquest Nahua ceremony that was  performed every 52 years, and it was celebrated  to give new life to the Sun so that it could  travel its celestial path for yet another span of  52 years. The fires in all of the area were extin -  guished, and a new fire was set in the chest of a  sacrificial offering whose heart had been taken  out. If there was any difficulty starting the fire,  it was feared that a new Sun would not be born  and everyone would be eaten alive during the  night. When the fire was finally lit, a runner  took it to Tenochtitlán, where a new fire was  also lit, and then on to other temples, and from  these individual household hearths were relit.  birch   A hardwood tree with thin, layered  bark. According to one Slavic legend, the birch  tree was used to placate forest spirits. The cel -  ebrants would gather in the forest, cut down a  small birch, form a circle, each in turn stepping  on the stump of the tree, and call upon the spir -  it. The spirit indicated its presence through the  trembling of the birch leaves. In ancient Rome  birch   bundles   wrapped   around   an   ax   were  symbols of authority. The birch was sacred to  the Nordic god Thor and was later associated  with the switches used to scourge Christ dur -  ing his Passion. In Scandinavia a birch branch  protected against the evil eye, lightning, gout,  and barrenness. In Victorian England the birch  symbolized grace and meekness.  See also:   thor  birch    5

=== 페이지 203 ===
bird   Warm-blooded vertebrate having a body  covered with feathers and forelimbs modified  into wings. Because birds fly they have often  been symbols of the soul leaving the body at  death. In ancient Egyptian mythology the   ba  (soul) was portrayed as a bird with the head of a  human being. Bird features were also assumed  by various gods: the hawk was associated with  Horus, Ra, and other sun deities; the ibis with  the god Thoth; the goose with Geb; and the  swallow with Isis. The   ba   abandoned the body  at death and hovered over the mummy to pro -  tect it from decay until it reentered the body. In  Hindu mythology birds are also symbols of the  soul or contain the souls of humans. In Jewish  folklore the hoyl bird was believed to be the  only creature that refused to eat the forbidden  fruit when Adam gave it to all the animals after  he and Eve had eaten it. The hoyl, therefore,  does not know death but like the phoenix goes  to sleep, a divine fire consuming it and its nest.  All that remains is an egg, which miraculously  hatches a new, fullgrown hoyl.  One of the most persistent motifs regarding  birds in nearly all mythologies and folklore is  their ability to speak and to be understood by  humans. In Christian legend St. Rose of Lima  sang to the birds, and they answered her. In  Norse mythology Sigurd tastes dragon’s blood  and then understands the language of birds. In  the Grimm folktale The White Snake a servant  eats a part of the king’s supper and then is able  to understand the language of birds and other  animals. There are numerous motifs associated  with birds in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   adam and eve; ba; fafnir; geb;  horus; isis; phoenix; sigurd; thoth  Bisan   In Malayan mythology, the female spirit  of camphor, who assumes the form of a cicada.  Bishamon   In Japanese Buddhist mythology,  war god and a god of riches; one of the Shichi  Fukujin, seven gods of good luck or fortune.  Often he is portrayed dressed in armor and  carrying a pagoda in his left hand and a scep -  ter, lance, or three-pointed halberd in his right  hand. He is one of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese  Buddhist gods and goddesses adopted from  Hindu mythology. Bishamon is derived from  the war god Skanda or Vai´ srávana.  See also:   jiu no o; shichi fukujin; skanda  Bith and Birren   In Celtic mythology, hus -  band and wife in the myth of the Great Flood.  Bith was the apocryphal son of Noah who was  denied entry into the ark. With the counsel of  his daughter Cesara he built an idol who then  commanded him to build a ship and take ref -  uge in it. Bith, his wife, Birren, their daughter  Cesara and her husband, Fintaan, with their  son Lara and his wife, Balma, sailed in this ship  for seven years before they reached Ireland.  There were 50 women but only three men.  Bith took one of Cesara’s companions as well  as 16 other women and settled in the north.  Bishamon   6   bird

=== 페이지 204 ===
He died before the Flood. A short time later,  the moon, blood red, broke into hundreds of  pieces, killing the whole family.  See also:   dylan; noah  Biton and Cleobis   (wild ox and famous life)  In Greek mythology, two heroes of Argos.  They were sons of Cydippe, a priestess of the  goddess Hera. When no oxen could be found  to draw their mother’s chariot, they pulled it  several miles to the temple of the goddess.  There Cydippe prayed that they receive the  best possible gift as a reward for their filial  duty. In response the goddess let them die in  her temple, indicating that death is the only  truly happy event for humankind.  See also:   hera  Black Bart   (1829–1888?)   In American his -  tory and folklore, popular name of Charles  E. Boles, the bane of Wells Fargo bank. Black  Bart was a Union soldier and a schoolteacher  before he took up stealing. He is credited with  more than 30 robberies without ever firing a  shot. He was said to be very polite, always tell -  ing his victims: “Please throw down the box!”  His trademark was to leave a signed poem as a  reminder of his visit, such as:  I’ll start out to-morrow with another  empty sack.  From Wells Fargo I will borrow  But I’ll never pay it back.  The poems were signed: “Black Bart, Po. 8.”  When he was released after four years in San  Quentin, the warden asked him if he was finished  with a life of crime. Black Bart replied he was.  “What are you going to do then, Bart?” the  warden asked. “Are you going to write poetry  for a living?”  “Warden,” Bart replied, “didn’t I tell you I  wasn’t going to commit any more crimes.”  When he was old, Bart was given a pension of  $200 a month not to rob Wells Fargo. All he had  to do was report every week to the authorities  to let them know his whereabouts. He was seen  for the last time in San Francisco on 28 Febru -  ary 1888 at the Nevada House. The next day he  was gone, leaving all his belongings behind. He  appears in the Hollywood movie   Black Bart,   in  which Lola Montes falls in love with him.  Blackbeard   (died   1718)   In   American   his -  tory and folklore, popular name of the sadistic  English pirate Edward Teach, who wore black,  braided   whiskers.   His   name   originally   was  Edward Drummond, and he began his career as  an honest seaman, sailing out of his home port  of Bristol, England. He is seldom known by  that name, for after he became a pirate he called  himself Edward Teach. It was under this name  that the people of his generation knew him, “a  swaggering, merciless brute.” Preying on ships  and coastal towns from the West Indies to the  Atlantic coast of North America, Blackbeard’s  activities were overlooked by the governor of  North Carolina, who shared in his booty. But  eventually the British sent troops from Virginia  to capture the pirate. When he was beheaded,  according to legend, his headless corpse swam  around the ship three times before it sank, and  his skull was later made into a drinking cup.  Bladud   In British mythology, the 10th king  of Britain, father of King Lear. Bladud built  Bath “and fashioned hot baths therein, meet for  the needs of men, in which he placed under the  guardianship of the deity Minerva,” according  to Geoffrey of Monmouth’s   History of the Kings of  Britain.   Bladud practiced sorcery and attempted  to fly with artificial wings but fell on the Temple  of Apollo and was dashed to pieces.  See also:   apollo; lear, king; minerva  Blain   (Ymir’s bones?)   In Norse mythology,  a giant, often identified with Ymir, the great  giant from whose body the earth was formed.  The name appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   prose edda;   ymir  Blain   

=== 페이지 205 ===
Blaise,   St.   (crippled,   stammering)   (fourth  century)   In Christian legend, bishop, patron  saint of physicians, wax chandlers, and wool  combers.   Invoked   against   throat   infections.  Feast, 3 February.  Blaise was a physician before he became a  bishop in Armenia. He suffered beheading after  his flesh was torn with iron combs used for  carding wool. One legend tells that while the  bishop was in prison awaiting his martyrdom, he  miraculously cured a little boy who nearly died  because a fish bone was stuck in his throat.  During the Middle Ages, St. Blaise was one  of the most popular saints. In central Europe  and in Latin countries people are still given  pan bendito   (St. Blaise sticks), which they eat  when they have a sore throat. One of the most  popular customs of the Roman church is the  blessing of throats, held on St. Blaise’s feast day.  A priest holds crossed candles against the head  or throat of a person, saying: “Through the  intercession of St. Blaise, bishop and martyr,  may the Lord free you from evils of the throat  and from any other evil.” In certain parts of  Italy priests touch the throats with a wick that  has been dipped into blessed oil.  Blanchefleur   (white   flower)   In   medieval  French legend, a Moorish slave girl rescued by  a Christian prince from the harem of the emir  of Babylon. The heroine appears in a French  metrical romance,   Flore et Blanchefleur.   She also  appears in Boccaccio’s   Il Filocopo   and Chaucer’s  Dorigen and Aurelius.  See also:   chaucer  Blánik   In Czech legend, name of a hillside  where a troop of sleeping Hussites wait to  answer the call of their country in its time  of   need.   The   15th-century   legend   inspired  Smetana’s symphonic poem   Blánik,   last in his  cycle of six symphonic poems included in   Má  Vlast   (My   Country).   Smetana   uses   the   old  Hussite hymn “Ye Are the Warriors of God” in  the work to express, according to the composer,  “the resurrection of the Czech people.”  Blathnat   (Blathine) (little flower)   In Celtic  mythology, daughter of Mider, king of the  Gaelic underworld. She becomes the lover of  the hero Cuchulain, who first meets her on a  raid to the Otherworld, where her husband,  Curoi Mac Daire, is guarding the magic cal -  dron. With Curoi’s aid, Cuchulain carries off the  magic caldron, three cows, and Blathnat. Curoi  subsequently recovers them and then humili -  ates Cuchulain by burying him in the earth up  to his armpits and shaving his head. A year later  Cuchulain meets with Blathnat, and they take  Curoi unawares and kill him. The murder is  revenged when Curoi’s poet, Ferchertne, sees  Blathnat standing at the edge of a steep cliff.  He rushes to her, places his arms around her,  and plunges to the beach below. Her counter -  part in Welsh legend is Blouderwedd (flower  maiden), who also betrayed her husband and as  a punishment was changed into an owl.  See also:   cuchulain  blood libel legend   Roman writers accused  Christians of drinking blood in orgies of incest,  sodomy,   infanticide,   and   ritual   cannibalism.  Similar accusations were frequently made dur -  ing the Middle Ages against Jews, who already  were said to have the blood of Christ on their  hands and were then persecuted for similar  bloody offenses. The first case involving Jews  accused   of   the   ritual   murder   of   Christian  children for their blood was in the city of  Fulda, Germany, in 1235, where 34 Jews were  executed. The legend has been amazingly per -  sistent through time and is still often reported  when a child is gruesomely slain. The Web site  Snopes.com repeatedly documents cases of the  legend around the world.  Bluebeard   In European folktales, a villain  who marries, one after the other, three or seven  women, killing each of them, but he himself is  killed by his last wife. Bluebeard may appear as  a king, merchant, or sorcerer. In the story, the  villain Bluebeard gives his wife the keys to his  castle or house, telling her not to open one cer -     Blaise, St.

=== 페이지 206 ===
tain door. Of course, the wife opens the door  and discovers either a number of dead wives or  a basin of blood. When Bluebeard returns, he  either kills his wife or locks her in a dungeon  to eat only human flesh. This happens to all  of his wives except the last, the youngest, who  either kills Bluebeard with a saber or is saved  by a young man; in some variants she outwits  Bluebeard and has her brothers kill him. The  most   famous   telling   of   the   tale   is   Charles  Perrault’s version in his   Contes de ma mère, l’oye’  (1697), often translated as   Tales of Mother Goose.  The story of Bluebeard is also found in the  early collections by the Brothers Grimm, but it  was left out in later editions, possibly because  the same tale type was found in their collection  under the titles “The Virgin Mary’s Child” and  “Fitcher’s Bird.” Béla Bartók’s   Prince Bluebeard’s  Castle   is an operatic version of the folktale.  See also:   brothers grimm; mother goose;  tale type  Blunderbore   In British legend, a giant who  is tricked by Jack the Giant Killer into cutting  open his own stomach. Blunderbore offered  Jack the Giant Killer a bed for the night, hoping  to club him to death while he slept. Jack, suspi -  cious, placed logs under the bed covers and crept  underneath the bed. Blunderbore came into the  room and thoroughly pounded the bed with his  club. Next morning Jack appeared at breakfast,  and the giant was thoroughly surprised, believ -  ing he had killed Jack the night before. As they  ate their breakfast of hasty pudding, Jack seemed  to be consuming vast quantities of it, but in  reality he was surreptitiously stuffing the pud -  ding into a bag hidden underneath his clothing.  The giant, trying to keep up with Jack, stuffed  himself with more and more pudding. Jack then  put a knife into the bag and let out some of the  pudding. The giant, seeing this, put a knife into  his stomach, killing himself.  Boabdil   (died c. 1533)   In Spanish history  and legend, last Moorish king of Granada, sub -  ject of numerous Spanish ballads. Boabdil, also  called El Chico (the young one), dethroned  his father but was later forced to give up his  throne and city to King Ferdinand of Spain.  The Spanish ballad   The Flight from Granada  tells the legend of his escape. José Zorrilla y  Moral’s literary ballad   Boabdil   tells the legend  of the king’s love for a Christian lady to whom  he would give all Granada, and Washington  Irving’s   The Conquest of Granada   deals with  Boabdil’s history and legend.  See also:   ballad  Boadicea   (Boudicca) (victorious)   (first century  c.e. )   British queen who led a revolt against the  Romans, failed, and poisoned herself.  Boadicea was the wife of Prasutagus, king  of the Iceni. On his death the Romans seized  the territory, and according to Tacitus in   Annals  (book   14),   “Boadicea   was   flogged   and   her  daughters raped.” However, she rallied and  appeared riding in a chariot with her daugh -  ters in front of her. She cried out: “We British  Boadicea     Bluebeard   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 207 ===
are used to woman commanders in war. I am  descended from mighty men! But I am not  fighting for my kingdom and wealth now. I  am fighting as an ordinary person for my lost  freedom, my bruised body, and my outraged  daughters.”  Boadicea raised a revolt and burned Cam -  ulodunum   and   Londinium   (Colchester   and  London), but eventually lost. Rather than fall  into the hands of the Romans, she poisoned  herself. Her story forms the theme for a play,  Bonduca   (Boadicea), by John Fletcher, produced  in 1619; a literary ballad by William Cow -  per,   Boadicéa: An Ode ; and Tennyson’s poem  Boädicea.   John Milton, in his   History of Britain,  rejects the legend, saying it was written to  prove that “in Britain women were men, and  men women.”  Boann   (goddess of the white cow)   In Celtic  mythology, water goddess, wife of Nechtan or  Ecmar, mistress of the god Dagda, and mother  of Aengus og, god of love and beauty. After  her affair with Daga, she attempted to prove  she was chaste by walking around Connla’s  well or Nechtan’s well. But three waves arose.  One took off her thigh, another a hand, and  the third an eye. Boann fled and was drowned  by the pursuing waves, which became the river  Bogne. Near it lived the magic Salmon of  Knowledge, who was fed by nuts dropped from  the nine hazel trees at the water’s edge.  See also:   aengus og; dagda  Bochica   In   the   mythology   of   the   ancient  Chibcha Indians of Colombia, chief god and  culture hero. He came from the east, traveling  across the country disguised as a bearded old  man, teaching moral laws and arts to man. In  one myth Bochica saved the people when a flood  inundated the plain of Bogotá. He appeared and  cleaved the mountains with his golden scepter,  opening a passage for the waters into the val -  ley below. Bochica’s wife was Cuchaviva, the  rainbow goddess, who watched over women in  childbirth and made the fields fertile. Bochica  was sometimes worshipped as Zuhe (sun) or  Xue (lord) or was identified with the culture  hero Nemterequeteba or Chimizapagua.  See also:   nemterequeteba  Bodhi   In Buddhism, term meaning enlight -  enment or awakening.   Buddha   means “one who  has attained   Bodhi. ”  Bodhidharma   (fifth   century   c.e. )   In  Buddhism,   sage   who   introduced   Buddhism  to China, where he is called P’u-T’i-Ta-Mo,  often abbreviated Ta-Mo. In Japanese legend  he   is   called   Daruma.   According   to   legend  Bodhidharma crossed the Yangtze River and  went to the Wei kingdom. There he prac -  ticed wall contemplation, sitting in meditation  before a wall, for nine years. A young monk  named Shen-kuang came and asked him for  instruction. Bodhidharma paid no attention to  him until the monk cut off his arm to prove his  sincerity. Bodhidharma then instructed him.  Bodhisattva   (Bodhisatta)   In Buddhism, one  who aspires to   Bodhi   (enlightenment), a poten -  tial Buddha, a Buddha-to-be. When a Mahayana  Bodhisattva has achieved stage seven on the  Path and is entitled to enter lesser Nirvana, he  refuses, renouncing it in favor of greater enlight -  enment. In the Avatamsaka Sutra the reason is  stated: “Forasmuch as there is the will that all  sentient beings should be altogether made free,  I will not forsake my fellow creatures.” There  are, according to the Lotus of the Good Law  (chapter 20), “hundreds of thousands of myriads  of Bodhisattvas who equal in number the atoms  contained in the thousand worlds.   .   .   .”  In Buddhist art the Bodhisattvas are por -  trayed crowned and loaded with jewels, whereas  the Buddha himself, who is in the center, is sim -  ply adorned. Among the best-known Mahayana  Bodhisattvas are Avalokiteshvara, Manjushri,  Samantabhadra,   Kshitigarbha,   and   Mahast -  hamaprapta.   The   Sanskrit   term   Bodhisattva  also is used in the Pali texts ( Bodhisatta ) for the  Buddha before he reached his Enlightenment,   0   Boann

=== 페이지 208 ===
and the term is applied in the Jatakas, folktales  of the former existences of the Buddha.  See also:   avalokitesshvara; bodhi; bud -  dha, the; jataka; mahasthamaprapta; mahay -  ana; manjushri; nirvana; samantabhadra  Bodhi-Tree   In Buddhism, tree under which  the Buddha gained Enlightenment. The tale of  the tree is told in the   Mahabodhi-Vamsa   (The  Great Bodhi Chronicle), written in the 11th cen -  tury and ascribed to Upatissa. The tale tells of the  various fortunes of the tree from before the time  of the Buddha and after his Enlightenment. The  tree is a specific example of the   pipal,   or sacred  fig, a very common species in India, sacred to  Hindus as a source of fertility and/or gnosis.  bogy   In English and Scottish folklore, a per -  son or object of terror, a hobgoblin. The word  appeared in use in the early 19th century and  may be related to the Scottish word   bogle   and  with the obsolete word   bug.  Bomazi   In African mythology (Bushongo of  the Congo), lord of Bushongo, father of the male  twins Woto and Moelo. Once the fair-skinned  Bomazi told an old couple that they would bear a  child. In time they had a daughter, whom Bomazi  married. She bore him five sons, two of whom  were the twins Woto and Moelo. Woto later  became the founder of the Bushongo people.  Bona Dea   (the good goddess)   In Roman  mythology, the ancient Italian goddess, also  called Fauna, who was patron of chastity and  fruitfulness; married to Faunus, who was the  only being who saw her after their marriage.  Her worship was conducted by vestal virgins.  The festival of the founding of her temple was  held on 1 May. Prayers were then offered for  the averting of earthquakes. During the nights  of 4 and 5 December each year, select married  women celebrated secret rites on behalf of  the whole people under the supervision of the  Vestal Virgins. The ceremony was held in the  house of a major magistrate, often the Urban  Praetor (who was always in the city). The mag -  istrate had to sleep elsewhere this night, for no  male creature was allowed to witness the rites.  The mistress of the house presided over the  rites. After offering a sacrifice of suckling pigs,  the women performed a dance accompanied by  stringed and wind instruments.  In Roman art Bona Dea was portrayed with a  scepter in her left hand, a wreath of vine leaves on  her head, and a jar of wine at her side. Near her  image was a consecrated serpent. Tame serpents  were kept in her temple, located on the slope of  the Aventine in Rome, and healing plants were  preserved at her shrine, which no men were  allowed to enter. Cicero gave details of the rites  when he wrote about his political archenemy,  Clodius, who was indicted for sacrilege when he  attempted to witness the secret rites dressed as a  woman. Ovid’s   Ars Amoris   also cites the goddess.  See also:   faunus; ovid; vestal virgins  Bonaventura,   St.   (good   fortune)   (1221–  1274)   In   Christian   legend,   the   Seraphic  Doctor. Feast, 14 July.  Born Giovanni Fidanga in Tuscany, he was  so ill as a child that his mother took him to St.  Francis of Assisi to be healed. When St. Francis  saw him he said, “ O, buona venturai, ” (Oh, good  fortune). His mother then named the child  Bonaventura and dedicated him to God. At 22  he became a Franciscan and went to Paris to  study theology.  Legend says that when he did not come  to receive Holy Communion, feeling himself  unworthy, an angel brought it to him. Though  he was known for his humility, he was greatly  honored by St. Louis, king of France, and  made general of the Franciscan order in 1256.  Some years later he was made cardinal and  bishop of Albano.  According to legend, when two nuncios came  from Pope Gregory X to present him with the  cardinal’s hat, they found him in the garden of  a convent near Florence washing his plate after  dinner. He told them to hang the hat on a tree  until he had finished. The great council at Lyons  Bonaventura, St.   

=== 페이지 209 ===
(1274) held to reconcile the Greek and Latin  churches, in which he took part, exhausted the  saint, and he died shortly afterward. Some claim,  however, that he was poisoned. He was buried in  the Church of the Franciscans at Lyons. In 1562  Calvinists broke open his shrine and threw his  ashes into the Saône.  In Christian art St. Bonaventura is shown in  a Franciscan habit, sometimes wearing a miter  or cardinal’s hat, or with one hanging on a tree.  Often he carries the Host (communion wafer),  or an angel is giving one to him.  Boniface, St.   (of good fate)   (c. 675–754)   In  Christian legend, Apostle of Germany. Patron  saint of brewers and tailors. Feast, 5 June.  Born   Winfred   in   Devonshire,   England,  he taught in a Benedictine abbey near Win -  chester. In his middle age he had a great desire  to preach the Gospel in Germany and went to  Rome to gain the support of Pope Gregory II.  Here he changed his name to Boniface. He  then started on his mission, visiting Thuringia,  Bavaria, and Saxony. In 732 he was made pri -  mate of all Germany and soon afterward first  bishop of Mainz. When he was 74, he was sent  out on another missionary journey, carrying a  copy of St. Ambrose’s   De Bono Mortis   under his  cloak. He got as far as Friesland, where he was  murdered by some pagans. For centuries his  bloodstained book was exhibited as a relic in  Fulda, where he supposedly lies buried.  In Christian art he is portrayed as a bishop—  in one hand, a crosier and in the other, a book  pierced by a sword. Sometimes he is shown  baptizing a convert, with one foot on a fallen  oak, the symbol of Druidism, which he over -  threw by his preaching.  See also:   ambrose, st.; benedict, st.; druids  Bonten   In Japanese Buddhist mythology, a  god derived from the Hindu god Brahma, in  art portrayed standing on a lotus leaf. He has  three heads of equal size with three eyes each,  surmounted by a smaller head with two eyes  only. One hand holds a lotus; another, a tri -  dent; and a third, a drinking vessel. The fourth  and last one is directed downward with open  palm and fingers extended in the   mudra,   or  gesture, of charity. He is one of the Jiu No O,  12 Japanese gods and goddesses adopted from  Hindu mythology.  See also:   brahma; jiu no o; lotus; mudra   2   Boniface, St.  Book of the Dead

=== 페이지 210 ===
Book of the Dead ,   The   Popular title given  to a collection of ancient Egyptian funerary texts  composed for the benefit of the dead. The collec -  tion consists of incantations, hymns, prayers, and  magic words and formulas that were found cut  or painted on the walls of pyramids and tombs  and on rolls of papyrus. The texts do not form a  connected work, nor do they belong to any one  period. They are miscellaneous in character and  tell nothing of the lives or works of the dead with  whom they are buried. The Egyptians possessed  many funerary works, but none of them bore  a name that could be translated The Book of  the Dead. This title was given in the early 19th  century by tomb robbers, who discovered buried  with the mummies rolls of papyrus, which they  called   Kitâb al-Mayyit   (book of the dead man) or  Kitâb al-Mayyitun   (book of the dead). The rob -  bers, however, knew nothing of the contents of  the rolls; they were merely saying that what they  found in the coffin was a “dead man’s book.”  See also:   benu; buto; coffin texts; isis;  maat; nephthys; osiris; pyramid texts; tem;  thoth; utchat  Boone, Daniel   (1734–1820)   In American  history and folklore, a frontiersman. Boone  began   his   life   as   a   backwoods   trailblazer,  an   agent   for   the   Transylvania   Company   in  Kentucky. He became a land speculator but  lost many of his holdings and later moved  westward to Missouri. His fame in American  folklore began with the publication of John  Filson’s   Discovery, Settlement and Present State  of Kentucke,   which was a supposedly autobio -  graphical account of Boone’s life.  One legend says that in later years Boone kept  a coffin under his bed, and when the mood came  upon him, he would try it on for size. According  to another legend, he died alone in the wilder -  ness. In reality he died with his family around  him. The state legislature of Missouri even wore  mourning crepe for 20 days after his death.  In art, a lithograph published by Currier  & Ives portrayed Boone defending his family  against an Indian attack. Charles F. Wimar’s  The Abduction of Daniel Boone’s Daughter   por -  trays his daughter Jemina being abducted by  Chief   Hanging   Maw.   Hollywood   has   used  Boone’s legend in   Daniel Boone, Young Daniel  Boone,   and   Daniel Boone, Trail Blazer,   and tele -  vision had a longrunning series,   Daniel Boone,  which began in 1964.  Boorala   In   Australian   mythology,   tribal  name for a creator god. Those who are good  go to Boorala’s home when they die.  Borak   (Al Burak, Alborac, Al-borach, Al-Buraq)  (lightning)   In Islamic mythology, fabulous ani -  mal brought by Gabriel that carried the prophet  Muhammad mounted on the night of his ascen -  sion to the seventh heaven. The Koran (sura 17)  tells of a vision the prophet had in which he was  borne from Mecca to Jerusalem and then on to  the various heavens. The animal that carried  him is neither described nor named in the text.  Islamic legend, however, has embellished the  story, and   The Ascension of Muhammad   tells of  the prophet’s journey to the heavens. Borak is  described as “smaller than a mule and larger than  an ass, his face was like that of a human being,  while his tail and hoofs were like those of a cow.”  (In another telling the tail and hoofs resembled a  goat’s.) “He had the rump of a horse, and carried  an emerald green saddle, a harness of pearls, and  turquoise stirrups.” When Borak took a stride, it  “was as far as the eye could reach.”  In Islamic art the fabulous animal is often  portrayed with the head of a veiled woman and  a peacock’s tail. His saddle is shown to pilgrims  in the mosque of al-Sakhra in Jerusalem.  See also:   koran, the; muhammad  Borden, Lizzie   (1860–1927)   In American  history and legend, a woman accused of murder -  ing her father and stepmother on 4 August 1892  in Fall River, Massachusetts. When Lizzie was  brought to trial, she displayed little or no emo -  tion over the event, but she was found innocent  of the crime. However, a popular American bal -  lad,   Lizzie Borden,   finds her guilty:  Borden, Lizzie    3

=== 페이지 211 ===
Lizzie Borden took an ax  And gave her mother forty whacks;  When she saw what she had done,  She gave her father forty-one.  Morton   Gould’s   ballet   Fall   River   Legend  deals with the story in flashbacks, finally end -  ing   with   Lizzie’s   hanging   for   murder.   The  distinguished   actress   Lillian   Gish   portrayed  Lizzie in a 1934 play,   Nine Pine Street,   although  her character was renamed Effie Holden and  Effie used a flatiron and a heavy walking stick  as her weapons. In 1995, Lizzie was the subject  of an episode of Arts & Entertainment’s   Biog -  raphy,   and she was “tried” (and found innocent)  in a mock trial on C-SPAN.  Boreas   (north   wind,   devouring)   In   Greek  mythology, the North Wind; son of Astraea and  Eos, brother of the Winds, Zephyrus, Eurus,  and Notus; called Aquilo in Roman mythology.  His home was in the Thracian Salmydessus on  the Black Sea. He carried off and raped Orithyia  after her father Erechtheus, king of Athens, had  refused to give her to Boreas in marriage. Their  children were Calais and Zetes, the Boreadae;  Cleopatra, the wife of Phineus; and Chione, the  beloved of Poseidon. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (books 10,  12) cite Boreas, as does Shakespeare’s   Troilus and  Cressida   (1.3.37). In Western Renaissance art,  Boreas appears in allegories of the Four Seasons  as the personification of Winter. He is shown as  an old man with flowing gray locks and wings.  See also:   aeneid, the ; poseidon; zephyrus  Bori   In Australian mythology, invisible spirit  who kills his victims by injecting them with  incurable diseases.  Boris and Gleb, Sts.   (fight)   (11th century)  In Christian legend, martyrs. In Russia patrons  of brotherly love and devotion. Feast, 24 July.  They were the sons of St. Vladimir, ruler of  Kiev. At Vladmir’s death the throne was to be  divided among them and their elder brother,  Sviatopolk. The elder brother, however, decided  he wanted the throne for himself and planned  the murder of both of his brothers. As the  Primary Chronicle   or   The Tale of Bygone Years,  compiled by various hands from about 1040 to  1118, tells it, Sviatopolk “was filled with lawless -  ness,” and he hired men to kill Boris. Boris was  attacked and wrapped in a canvas, loaded into  a wagon, and dragged off, though “he was still  alive.” A knife was then plunged into his heart.  His brother Gleb was attacked by Sviatopolk’s  men, but Gleb’s cook, fearful he would be killed,  murdered Gleb to appease the assassins.  From about 1200 the two saints were hon -  ored in the Cathedral of St. Sophia at Con -  stantinople, where their icon stood to the right  of the altar at which the Byzantine emperors  were consecrated. In Russia the saints were  extremely popular and frequently painted on  icons. In a 13th-century icon of the Moscow  school, the two saints hold swords, crosses, and  emblems of their rank. The two are usually  dressed alike but in different colors.  See also:   vladimir, st.   4   Boreas  Boreas Carrying Off Orithyia  (Charles Mills Gayley),   1893

=== 페이지 212 ===
Boris Godunov   (1552–1605)   Czar of Russia  who became part of Russian legend because  of his supposed murder of Ivan IV’s younger  son, Dmitri. Boris came to the throne in 1598,  having been regent since 1584. Ivan IV’s son  Dmitri had been banished to the upper Volga,  where he died. It was believed he had been  murdered   by   order   of   Boris.   A   pretender,  claiming to be Dmitri, said he had escaped  the   assassins   and   was   the   rightful   heir   to  the throne. Supported by an advancing army,  Dmitri was crowned in 1605, but Boris died  suddenly, avoiding a dethronement.  Influenced by the legend of Boris and by his  reading of Shakespeare, Pushkin wrote a dra -  matic play,   Boris Godunov,   which was later used  by Moussorgsky for his opera   Boris Godunov.  The opera is considered one of the cornerstones  of Russian and modern opera and is performed  in numerous musical arrangements, the best -  known being Rimsky-Korsakov’s 1908 version.  Borvo   (Bormo)   (boil,   seethe)   In   Celtic  mythology, a god who presided over healing hot  springs and health resorts in central France. He  was identified by ancient Roman writers with  their god Apollo; he was called Bormanus in  Provence and Bormanious in Portugal. Borve,  the king in Celtic mythology whose children  were turned into swans by his evil second wife,  Aeife, is believed to be derived from the god.  See also:   apollo; belinus  bosom serpent   An oral theme found in folk  narrative,   literature,   and   recently   in   movies.  Nathaniel Hawthorne made the theme popular  through his story “The Egotism; or the Bosom  Serpent” published in 1854. The legend com -  monly tells that someone, usually a female, swal -  lows something that then grows inside her. In the  1930s it was reported that a London factory girl  swallowed something while taking a swim and  immediately thereafter was seized with terrible  pains. Doctors and specialists failed to diagnose  the case, until an X-ray examination showed that  she had swallowed an octopus egg, which had  hatched inside her body. In 1979, Ridley Scott’s  box-office hit   Alien   presented the theme in a sci-  fi film. There is a traditional folk motif assigned  to this type of tale: Girl swallows frog spawn,  and an octopus grows inside her, with tentacles  reaching to every part of her body.  See also:   motif  Boy, His Sisters, and the Magic Horse,  The   This is a Tibetan version of the prodigal  son story with a uniquely Asian tone. A man  goes out hunting with his son, only to learn that  the boy is unable to kill any animals. The father  punishes him by putting the boy into a large hole  in the ground with a stone cover upon which he  writes “Open or Not as You Please.” When three  itinerant Buddhist monks come by, they rescue  the boy, who then lives with them for a period  of time. Later they accompany him to visit his  three sisters, the third of whom recognizes him  as their long-lost brother. Each gives him a  magical animal: The eldest gives him a horse,  the second a cow, and the third a sheep. While  traveling with the magical horse, the young boy  is told by the horse: “You must kill me and spread  my hide over the ground, then scatter my hair to  the winds.” Because he has never been able to  kill an animal, he refuses, but the horse gallops  away and falls from a steep cliff. When the boy  finds him and lies down on the hide, it turns into  a magnificent palace, and the hairs of the horse  turn into cattle grazing in the fields. At a feast for  his sisters, he says that he wants to return to his  parents, but they advise against it. He goes home  anyway and is welcomed first by his mother and  then by the father. The parents go with him to  his palace and live happily, but we do not know  what happened to the cow and the sheep. The  concluding line, as in most Tibetan tales, ends  with the formula, “The sun of happiness shone  on the mountaintop and the staff of misery was  washed away in the river.”  Boyde, Rebel Belle   (1844–1900)   In U.S.  history and Civil War folklore, a Southern  woman whose charm captivated the Yankees.  Boyde, Rebel Belle    5

=== 페이지 213 ===
When she killed a Yankee soldier who, she  said, was attacking her mother, the Yankee  captain not only thought what she did was  honorable but also gave her a small revolver  so she could better protect her mother and  herself in the future. Belle was courted by  Union soldiers but spied on them. She finally  was arrested in 1862 and escorted to jail by  nearly 400 Union troops. In prison she gained  the friendship of all of the jailers and was out  in a month. She wrote   Belle Boyde in Camp  and Prison   and gave lectures on her Civil War  adventures.  Bragi   (to shine, leader)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, Aesir god of eloquence and poetry; son of  Odin and Gunlod; married to Iduna; consid -  ered to be the first skald. Some scholars believe  that Bragi might be a deified ninth-century  poet named Bragi Boddason or merely another  name for Odin, chief of the gods, since both  Odin and Bragi are called Long-Bearded. Both  are associated with the cult of the dead. When  a king died, a feast was held, and a cup, called  Bragarfull (cup of Bragi), was drunk from in his  honor. Each guest pledged some great deed at  the time. Some connect Bragi’s name with the  English “to brag.” Northern poets were often  called Bragamen and priestesses Braga-women.  Bragi was portrayed as an elderly man with a  long white beard, holding a harp. At the sound  of his music trees bloomed. Bragi greeted the  slain heroes in Valhalla.  See   also:   aesir;   iduna;   odin;   skald;  valhalla  Brahma   In Hinduism, creator god in the  triad   of   deities   called   Trimorti,   including  Vishnu and Shiva.  Brahma in present-day Hinduism is often  called the first of the gods, the framer of the  universe, and the guardian of the world. In  the ancient Vedas, however, he is not named;  there the creator is called Hiranya-garbha (the  golden egg) or Prajapati (lord of creatures).  Prajapati was later used as a title for Brahma  and also for his sons, who in Hindu mythology  are progenitors of the human race.  Various   accounts,   which   differ   consider -  ably,   are   given   of   Brahma’s   origin.   In   the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata   Brahma is  said to have issued from the lotus that sprang  from the navel of the god Vishnu. In another  text Brahma is said to have lived in a cosmic  egg for 1,000 years and then burst out. Seeing  that the earth was sunk beneath the waters,  Brahma assumed the form of a boar (in later  Hindu writings the role is assigned to Vishnu  in one of his avatars, or incarnations) and  diving, raised the earth on his tusks. After  this Brahma continued the work of creation.  Concerning this role as supreme creator of the  universe, Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote in his  poem “Brahma”:  If the red slayer think he slays,  Or if the slain think he is slain,  They know not well the subtle ways  I keep, and pass, and turn again.  Far or forgot to me is near;   6   Bragi  Brahma

=== 페이지 214 ===
Shadow and sunlight are the same;  The vanished gods to me appear;  And one to me are shame and fame.  They reckon ill who leave me out;  When me they fly, I am the wings;  I am the doubter and the doubt,  And I the hymn the Brahmin sings.  The strong gods pine for my abode,  And pine in vain the sacred Seven;  But thou, meek lover of the good!  Find me, and turn thy back on heaven.  Emerson was questioned about the mean -  ing of his poem because many readers were  upset by the imagery and reference to an alien  god. He said to his daughter: “Tell them to say  Jehovah instead of Brahma.”  Numerous myths are told of the god in vari -  ous Hindu texts. Once Brahma, as Apava (who  sports in the waters), formed two beings from  his body, a male, Viraj, and a female, Shatarupa  (the hundred-formed). After creating Shata -  rupa, Brahma lusted for her. “How beautiful  you are,” he said to his daughter.  Shatarupa turned to avoid Brahma’s lust -  ful look, but the god sprouted a second head.  As she passed to the left, two other heads  appeared. At last Shatarupa sprang up to the  sky, and Brahma grew yet another head to  view   her.   Shatarupa   then   came   down,   and  the two made love, producing offspring that  later populated the earth. She was then made  Brahma’s wife.  Brahma, however, did not keep his fifth  head, for it was cut off by the god Shiva.  Once when the holy sages were assembled at  Brahma-pura, the heavenly city of Brahma on  Mount Meru, they asked Brahma to display  his true nature. Brahma, influenced by delu -  sion brought on him by a demon and obscured  by spiritual darkness (both gods and people in  Hindu mythology often share the same virtues  and faults), said: “I am the womb of the uni -  verse, without the beginning or end, and the  sole and self-existent lord; and he who does not  worship me shall never attain beatitude.”  On hearing this reply Kratus (a form of  the god Vishnu) smiled and said: “Had thou  not been misled by ignorance, thou would not  have made an assertion contrary to truth; for  I am the framer of the universe, the source of  life, the unborn, eternal and supreme. Had I  not willed it, creation would not have taken  place.”  The two gods then fought, finally agreeing  to let the sacred writings, the Vedas, decide the  issue. The Vedas declared that Shiva was the  creator, preserver, and destroyer. Shiva then  appeared and Brahma’s fifth head asked Shiva  to worship him. Shiva then assumed a horrible  form and cut off Brahma’s fifth head with the  thumb of his left hand.  Brahma   is   also   called   Srashtri   (creator),  Ka   (who),   Dhatri   and   Bidhatri   (sustainer),  Pitamaha (the great father), Lokesa (lord of  the world), Parameshta (supreme in heaven),  Adikavi (the first poet), Drughana (the ax, the  mallet), and Hiranya-garbha (the golden egg),  referring to the myth that Brahma “continued  a year in the egg” and then “divided it into two  parts by his mere thought, and with these two  shells he formed the heavens and the earth.”  The four mind-born sons of Brahma are  Sanaka (the ancient), Sananda (joyous), Sanatana  (eternal), and Sanatkumara (eternally a youth).  See   also:   avatar;   mahabharata,   the ;  sanaka; sananda; sanatana; sanatkumara;  shatarupa; shiva; vishnu; vedas  Brahman   A   term   used   in   Hinduism   for  ultimate reality, as well as for the priestly caste.  Brahman is a neuter term (the masculine form  is Brahma, which is also the name of the Hindu  god but is distinct from the term   Brahma ). It  refers to the sacred powers implicit in and cre -  ated through sacrificial ritual by the priests who  are called Brahmans. A Brahman is believed  to be a god. In the sacred book   Satapatha  Brahmana   a Brahman is defined thus: “There  are two kinds of gods; first the gods, then those  who are Brahmans, and have learnt the   Veda  and repeat it: they are human gods.” Of course,  Brahman   

=== 페이지 215 ===
this sentence was written by a Brahman and  was used to reinforce his authority and position  in Indian society. Some Hindu texts equate the  terms   Brahman   and   Atman,   both being used for  “ultimate reality” or “world spirit.”  The term   Brahmin   in English and American  literature has come to mean a socially exclusive  person who considers himself better than those  not of his own class. It was applied to many  rich families in New England during the 19th  century, and the term   Boston Brahmin   is still  occasionally heard.  See also:   atman; brahma; vedas  Bran   In Celtic mythology, god who presided  over poetry and, according to some scholars,  was lord of the underworld in Welsh mythol -  ogy because his totem was a crow or raven,  both connected with death. Bran, according  to myth, invaded Ireland to redress a wrong  done by King Matholwch, who was married to  Branwen, sister of Bran and goddess of love.  When he and his host of men were defeated,  his head was cut off, carried to White Tower  Hill in London, and buried with the eyes look -  ing toward France as a spell against foreign  invasion. King Arthur, according to medieval  legend, unearthed the head, which was called  Uther Ben (wonderful head), saying Britain  would remain a power by virtue of her own  strength. In some medieval Christian legends  Bran is transformed into Bran the Blessed and  credited with bringing Christianity to Britain.  Bran appears under various names in medieval  lore, among them Brandegore, Sir Brandel,  and Ban of Belwik Leodegrance.  See also:   arthur; branwen; uther ben  Branwen   (white raven)   In Celtic mythology,  goddess of love, wife of King Matholwch, and  sister of Bran, god of poetry.  See also:   bran; caswallawn  Breidalblick   (Breithablik) (broad blink, wide  glancing)   In Norse mythology, the palace of  the god Baldur, where nothing impure and the  fewest evils were found. Even so, Baldur was  murdered by a scheme of the evil god Loki.  Matthew Arnold, in his narrative poem   Balder  Dead,   describes the palace where engraved on  the columns were “enchantments that recall  the dead to life.”  See also:   baldur; loki  Bremen Town Musicians, The   The story  of four aging animals on their way to Bremen  has always been one of the most popular of  the Grimms’ tales, and is one of the few that  specifically names a German city as the place  of action. A donkey, a dog, a cat, and a rooster  are all getting old and are no longer appreci -  ated by their owners and, in fact, are about  to lose their lives. They meet up on the road,  and when it gets late they decide to spend the  night in what appears to be an abandoned  farmhouse. Inside there are robbers, who are  frightened away by the braying of the don -  key, the barking of the dog, the meowing of  the cat, and the cock-a-doodle-doing of the  rooster. When they return to take back the  house, one of the robbers is kicked by the  donkey, another is bitten by the dog, a third  is scratched by the cat, and as they run away  they think the creatures are crying, “Bring the  rogue to us.” Thereafter, the animals are able  to live out their lives in peace and comfort in  the small farmhouse.  On the German “Fairy Tale Road,” Bre -  men is the final stop, and a statue of the four  “musicians” is featured at the corner of the city  hall. The statue is a popular tourist attraction,  especially for children, and is low enough that  they can grasp the legs of the donkey. If they  make a wish while holding onto the legs of the  donkey, it is believed that the wish will come  true. It is interesting to note that though the  animal-musicians   never   actually   made   it   to  Bremen, they have become the symbol of the  city. An earlier variant is found in a story by  Georg Rollenhagen (1542–1609), “How the  ox and the ass together with their companions  storm a hut in the forest” (1595). Also, in a     Bran

=== 페이지 216 ===
Bremen Town Musicians, The     Sculpture of the Bremen Town Musicians, by Gerhard Marcks, 1951

=== 페이지 217 ===
Latin version of “Reynke the Fox” there is a  fable in which a goat, buck, fox, stag, cock, and  goose go traveling, establish themselves in a  hut in the forest, and play a trick on the wolf  who comes to it.  See also:   grimm brothers  Brendan, St.   (stinking hair)   (sixth century)  In Christian legend, patron saint of seafarers  and travelers. Feast, 16 May.  The best-known legend of St. Brendan con -  cerns his fantastic voyage to find the Earthly  Paradise, narrated in the   Navigatio Sancti Bren -  dani.   The work, which appeared in numerous  European languages during the Middle Ages,  is filled with adventures, many based on ear -  lier Irish pagan sagas, such as   The Voyage of  Bran.   Before St. Brendan reaches the Earthly  Paradise, which is an island in the middle of the  Atlantic, he encounters on his way the arch-  traitor Judas on a lonely rock on Christmas  night. Here Judas is allowed to cool himself  on certain feast days for the one kind act he  performed during his life.  The episode inspired Matthew Arnold’s poem  “St. Brendan,” in which the poet changes the  rock to an iceberg and Judas’s relief to but one  hour annually at Christmas. Dante is believed to  have read one version of the voyages of the saint  before writing   The Divine Comedy.   Alfred Lord  Tennyson, in his   Voyage of Maelduce,   says: “And  we came to the Isle of a saint who had sailed with  Brendan of yore, he had lived ever since on the  Isle and his winters were fifteen score.” Maps as  late as the 18th century marked St. Brendan’s  Island, or the Earthly Paradise, to the west of  Ireland, inspiring many Spanish and Portuguese  expeditions to go in search of the island.  See also:   judas iscariot  Br’er Fox   In American folklore, the wily  fox of Joel Chandler Harris’s   Uncle Remus: His  Songs and His Sayings.   One fable tells how Br’er  Fox outwitted and ate Ole Sis Goose. Br’er Fox  caught Ole Sis Goose sailing on his lake and said  he would take her to court and then eat her. She  protested. But when they arrived at court, the  sheriff, the judge, and all of the jury were foxes.  “And they tried Ole Sis Goose and convicted her  and executed her and they picked her bones,” the  fable ends. Br’er Fox appears in Walt Disney’s  movie   Song of the South   (1947), which combines  live actors and cartoon animation.  See   also:   br’er   rabbit;   uncle   remus;  trickster  Br’er Rabbit   In American folklore, the trick -  ster rabbit of Joel Chandler Harris’s   Uncle Remus:  His Songs and His Sayings.   In Harris’s tales Br’er  Rabbit always outwits Br’er Fox and most of the  other dull-witted animals. The most famous tale,  variants of which are found in African folklore, is  that of the tar baby with which Br’er Fox traps  Br’er Rabbit by molding a life-size doll out of tar  and placing it in Br’er Rabbit’s way. When the  tar baby does not answer Br’er Rabbit’s greeting,  he becomes annoyed and slaps the creature. His  hand sticks to the tar baby, and in his effort to  free himself by kicking and hitting it, he becomes  completely entangled. Br’er Fox, pondering the  cruelest fate for his captive, is begged by Br’er  Rabbit to do anything to him except “please  don’t throw me in the briar patch.” Br’er Fox  then tosses Br’er Rabbit into the briar patch,  thinking it the fate Br’er Rabbit dreads most.  As Br’er Rabbit scampers away to freedom he  calls back to Br’er Fox, “I was born and raised  in the briar patch.” Br’er Rabbit appears in Walt  Disney’s movie   Song of the South   (1947), which  combines live actors and cartoon animation.  See also:   br’er fox; uncle remus; trickster  Bress   (beautiful)   In   Celtic   mythology,   a  sun   god;   son   of   Fomer   and   Eri,   air   god -  dess; married to Brigit; king of the Tuatha  de Danann, the good people descended from  the goddess Danu (Anu). Though handsome, he  was disliked because he neglected his responsi -  bilities and oppressed his people with labor and  high taxes. Eventually he was murdered.  See   also:   danu; fomorians; tuatha de  danann  200   Brendan, St.

=== 페이지 218 ===
Brewins   In Australian mythology, invisible  evil spirits who cause disease. They can be  driven away by a medicine man, who uses foul  language against them and sucks the parts of  the victim’s body that have been attacked.  Brian   (strong)   In Celtic mythology, a wind  god or god of knowledge, son of Tuirenn and  Danu or Buan Ann, brother of Iuchon and  Iuchurba. The three brothers married three  princesses, Banba, Eriu, and Fodla.  See also:   banba; danu; tuatha de danann  Bridget   of   Sweden,   St.   (the   high   one,  strength)   (died   1373)   In   Christian   legend,  mystical writer, founder of Brigittine Order.  Feast, 8 October.  Daughter of a wealthy family in Sweden,  she married at 13 (not uncommon for the time)  and had eight children. She made a journey to  the shrine of St. James at Compostela with her  husband. At his death she founded a monastery  at Wastein for 60 nuns and 24 monks under the  rule of St. Augustine. In 1349 she went to Rome  to obtain confirmation for her order from the  pope. She also traveled to the Holy Land. Her  most famous work,   Revelations,   about the birth  and Passion of Christ, had a deep influence on  Christian symbolism and art.  In Christian art she is shown as an abbess  holding a crosier. She may have a pilgrim’s staff  with wallet in reference to her journeys to the  Holy Land or a book and pen for her mysti -  cal writings. Sometimes she is shown with a  candle, which according to legend she let drip  on her hand to imitate the wounds of Christ.  See also:   augustine, st.  Brigit   (Brigid, Brid, Bride, Bridget, Brigindo)  (high one, strength)   In Celtic mythology, god -  dess of knowledge, fire, the hearth, and poetry.  Brigit is a culture goddess, her name being  found in various forms throughout Britain as  well as the Continent. When the Irish became  Christian, Brigit was, according to some schol -  ars,   metamorphosed   into   Saint   Brigit.   Her  sacred shrine at Kildare was guarded by 19  nuns, and men were not permitted to enter.  One legend about her tells how she converted  a pagan on his deathbed while holding a cross  made from rushes on the floor. Crosses of St.  Brigit, made of rushes, are still common in  Ireland. Among some of the variant names by  which the goddess was known in Celtic mythol -  ogy are Berecyntia, Briganta, and Brigindo.  Brigit, St.   (the high one, strength)   (seventh  century)   In   Christian   legend,   abbess   of  Kildare. Feast, 1 February.  Brigit was born at Faughart, near Dundalk,  a few years after St. Patrick arrived on his mis -  sion to convert the Irish. One day, after milking  the cows, Brigit gave the contents of her pail  to some poor people who were passing. Then  realizing that her mother would be angry at her  for giving away the milk, Brigit asked God to  make good the loss. On reaching home Brigit’s  milk pail was found to be full.  St. Bridget   (Albrecht Dürer)  Brigit, St.   20 

=== 페이지 219 ===
According to another medieval legend, she  once sat with a blind nun, Dara. They talked  and the night passed and the sun rose. Brigit  passed her hands over the eyes of Dara, and the  nun gained her sight. The nun looked around  and then said to Brigit, “Close my eyes again,  dear Mother, for when the world is so visible,  God is seen less clearly to the soul.”  Brigit was called the Mary of Gael because  one monk said he had seen a vision of the Vir -  gin Mary, who said she would appear to him  again the next day. When he happened to see  Brigit, he called out that she was the woman he  had seen in his vision.  Some legends attached to the saint derive  from her namesake, Brigit, the pagan Celtic  goddess of knowledge, fire, the hearth, and  poetry. When the Irish became Christian, they  transferred some of the tales of the goddess  to the saint. St. Brigit’s shrine at Kildare was  guarded by 19 nuns who would never allow a  man to enter. This stems from the earlier prac -  tice relating to the goddess Brigit.  See also:   brigit (celtic); patrick, st.; vir -  gin mary  Brihaspati   (lord of sacred speech)   In Hindu  mythology, originally an epithet of Indra, or  Agni. It later evolved into a separate god who  instructed the other gods; he is equated with  the planet Jupiter. A myth records how his wife,  Tara, was kidnapped and raped by the moon  god Soma and later bore a son, Budha (wise),  who is the planet Mercury.  See also:   agni; indra; mercury  Brimir   (the   bloody   moisture)   In   Norse  mythology, a giant, sometimes believed to be  identical with the primeval giant Ymir, whose  blood flooded the earth when he was slain. In  the   Grimnismal,   one of the poems of the   Poetic  Edda,   Brimir is the name of a sword.  See also:   prose edda ; ymir  Britomartis   (sweet maid?)   In Greek myth-  ology,   a   Cretan   goddess,   daughter   of   Zeus  and Carme (or Charme or Leto). Britomartis  was often identified with the goddess Artemis,  patroness of hunters, fishermen, and sailors,  and she also was goddess of birth and chastity.  In her role as sea goddess Britomartis was called  Dictynna (lady of the net?). Minos loved her  and pursued her for nine months. Britomartis  leaped into the sea from a high rock to avoid  his advances. According to one myth she was  saved by Artemis, who caught her in a net.  Artemis then made Britomartis a goddess. In  Aegina she was known as Aphaea. In Spenser’s  Faerie Queene,   Britomart is Chastity.  See also:   artemis; carme; minos; zeus  Brizo   (charmer, soother)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a goddess worshipped at Delos and honored  by women as the protector of mariners. Food  offerings (no fish) were set before the goddess  in little boats. Brizo presided over an oracle that  was consulted on matters relating to navigation  and fishing. The answers were given in dreams.  See also:   delos  Brok   (Brokk)   (hunchback)   In Norse myth-  ology, dwarf, brother of Eitri. Brok blew the  bellows for the dwarf sons of Sindri, who were  the gold workers. Eitri made a boar with gold -  en bristles, then the ring Draupnir, and finally  Thor’s hammer, Mjolnir. Loki, the evil god,  tormented him by taking the form of a fly and  buzzing around him. The fly bit him between  his eyes, causing blood to flow into them. Brok  appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   loki;   prose edda  202   Brihaspati  Brok

=== 페이지 220 ===
Brontes   (thunder)   In   Greek   and   Roman  mythology, son of Uranus and Gaea; one of the  three Cyclopes, the other two being Arges (the  lightning bolt) and Steropes (the lightning flash).  See also:   gaea; uranus  Brown, John   (1800–1859)   In U.S. history  and folklore, father of 20 children and an abo -  litionist. The most famous episode in Brown’s  life is his raid on Harper’s Ferry, now in West  Virginia, on October 16, 1859, when he and 21  followers crossed the Potomac and captured  the U.S. Arsenal. Eventually Brown was caught  and hanged on December 2, 1859. His courage  and devotion to freeing the slaves had great  impact on American folklore. One of the most  popular Civil War ballads was “John Brown’s  Body,” which is also the title of Stephen Vincent  Benét’s long narrative poem. Whittier’s poem  “John Brown of Osawatomie” also deals with  the man, as does Edmund Stedman’s “How  Old Brown Took Harper’s Ferry” and Leonard  Ehrlich’s novel   God’s Angry Man.  brownie   (little brown man)   In Celtic myth-  ology, a Scottish goblin who may have earlier  been some Celtic god. At night he is supposed  to busy himself on little jobs for the family  over which he presides. He also assists in child -  birth. If he is criticized he may take revenge by  breaking dishes, spilling milk, or driving cows  away. Brownies are brown or tawny spirits. In  England they are called Robin Goodfellow or  Puck. They have much in common with the  kobold in Germanic folklore.  See also:   kobold  Bruce, Robert   (1272–1329)   In Scottish his -  tory and legend, national hero, crowned Robert  I at Scone in 1306. He died of leprosy. He  appears in numerous legends as a hero. The  most famous tale deals with a spider. While  lying concealed from the English on the island  of Rathlin, Bruce one day watched a spider  making repeated attempts to attach its web to  a ceiling beam. At last the spider succeeded in  its task. Encouraged by this example, Bruce left  the island in 1307, landed at Carrick with some  followers, and drove the English from Scotland.  His life is told in the epic poem   The Brus   by John  Barbour, written about 1375.  See also:   stone of scone  Bruno,   St.   (brown)   (c.   1033–1101)   In  Christian   legend,   founder   of   the   order   of  Carthusians. Invoked against carbuncles. Feast,  6 October.  Born in Cologne, St. Bruno became chan -  cellor of the diocese of Rheims but left after  denouncing the archbishop for simony. With  six companions he opted for the solitude of La  Chartreuse in the mountains near Grenoble,  where he founded the first Carthusian commu -  nity. St. Bruno was never formally canonized,  but his feast was extended to the whole Latin  church in 1674.  Though his life was not filled with mira -  cles, Bruno has been painted frequently. Some  scenes portray the death of Raymond Diocres,  Bruno’s teacher, who said on his deathbed, “By  the justice of God, I am condemned.” This  statement, according to various accounts, made  a deep impression on the saint. Other scenes  portray St. Bruno praying in the desert of the  Grande Chartreuse, refusing a bishopric, and  dying surrounded by monks of his order.  Brut   In British mythology, the first king of  the Britons, son of Sylvins, grandson of Ascanius  and great-grandson of Aeneas, the Trojan hero.  The name Britain is derived from Brut (Brute).  At 15, according to the myth, Brut accidentally  killed his father with an arrow while out hunt -  ing. Banished from his home, he sought refuge  in Greece with a band of Trojan exiles. After  several encounters with the Greeks, Brut cap -  tured the Greek king. In exchange for his free -  dom the Greek king offered Brut his daughter  Imogen. After the marriage Brut and his men  set sail, arriving at a deserted island, where Brut  saw the ruins of the Temple of Diana and called  on her for guidance. She answered him, telling  Brut   203

=== 페이지 221 ===
him there was an island past the realms of Gaul  in which he was to settle with his people. The  island was Britain, which Brut and his army set -  tled. Brut had Trojanova (new Troy) built, which  later became London. He was the progenitor  of a host of kings—Bladud, Gorboduc, Ferrex,  Porrex, Lud, Cymbeline, Coel (Cole), Vortigern,  and Arthur. Brut’s myth is told in Layamon’s   The  Brut,   written between 1189 and 1205.  See also:   aeneas; albania; arthur; brut;  diana  Brutus, Lucius Junius   (fifth century   b.c.e. )  In Roman history and legend, the first consul  of Rome, who is said to have held office in 509  b.c.e.   Brutus condemned to death his own sons  for joining a conspiracy to restore the banished  Tarquin to the throne. Brutus was, accord -  ing to James Thomson in his poem,   Winter  (1726–1730):  The public father who the private quelled,  And on the dread tribunal sternly sat.  The Italian dramatist Alfieri wrote a play on  the subject in 1783, and Rembrandt painted the  scene, as did David in his neoclassical style.  See also:   judas iscariot  Brutus,   Marcus   Junius   (85–42   b.c.e. )   In  Roman   history   and   legend,   Julius   Caesar’s  friend, sometimes said to be but almost cer -  tainly not his natural son; Caesar had, how -  ever, a longstanding affair with Brutus’s mother.  Brutus joined the conspiracy to murder Caesar.  He committed suicide after his defeat in battle  at Philippi. Shakespeare, in   Julius Caesar,   calls  Brutus “the noblest Roman of them all.” Dante,  seeing Brutus differently, placed him, along with  Cassius and Judas Iscariot, in the lowest circle of  Hell in   The Divine Comedy   (Inferno, canto 34).  Brynhild   (Brünnhilde, Brunhild, Brunhilda)  (warrior in coat of mail)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, a Valkyrie, daughter of Odin. Brynhild  appears in numerous northern legends and  myths. In the   Volsunga Saga   she is chief of the  Valkyries. When she disobeyed Odin by sid -  ing with Sigmund (Sigurd’s father), Odin pun -  ished her by putting her to sleep with a sleep  thorn and surrounded her with a ring of fire.  Only a hero brave enough to ride through the  flames could awaken her, a feat accomplished  by Sigurd. On waking she fell in love with the  hero, and he gave her a magic ring. Sigurd  then rode off to the land of the Nibelungs.  Here he was given a magic drink that made  him forget his love for Brynhild, and he mar -  ried Gudrun. In time he urged his brother-  in-law Gunnar to seek the hand of Brynhild.  Gunnar made two attempts but failed to break  through the circle of fire. Sigurd, disguised  with   the   Tarnkappe   (camouflage   cloak)   as  Gunnar,   rode   again   through   the   fire   and  received from Brynhild the magic ring he had  previously given her. Thinking it was Gunnar  who had broken the ring of fire to reach her,  she married him and plotted Sigurd’s death.  After his death, however, she was overcome  with remorse, killed herself, and was burned  on Sigurd’s funeral pyre.  The Germanic   Nibelungenlied,   in which she  is called Brunhild, recounts her story differ -  ently. Gudrun is called Kriemhild, Gunnar is  known as Gunther, and Sigurd is called Sieg -  fried. The events are more elaborately drawn  out, and the tragic elements form an important  part of the work.  Richard Wagner, in his four music dramas  Der Ring des Nibelungen   for the most part uses  the names in the   Nibelungenlied.   However, he  generally follows the plot of the   Volsunga Saga.  Brynhild  204   Brutus, Lucius Junius

=== 페이지 222 ===
Arthur Rackham portrays Brynhild in his illus -  trations for Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   nibelungenlied ;   ring des nibe -  lungen, der ; sigmund; sigurd; tarnkappe;  valkyrie  Bucephalus   (ox-headed)   In   Greek   history  and legend, the horse of Alexander the Great.  Plutarch, in his   Parallel Lives,   tells the legend  of how the horse was given to Alexander by his  father, Philip of Macedon, because the boy was  the only person who could tame the animal.  Bucephalus died after the battle of Hydaspes  (326   b.c.e. ) and was buried with honors. The  city   of   Bucephala   (modern-day   Jhelum   in  Pakistan) was named after the horse.  See also:   alexander the great  Buchis   (Bacis, Bkha)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, the sacred bull worshipped at Hermonthis,  believed to be an incarnation of the war god  Menthu.  See also:   apis; menthu  Buddha, The   (enlightened one, awakened  one)   (c. 566–486   b.c.e. )   Title of Siddhartha  Gautama (he whose aim is accomplished; of the  lineage of Gotama), founder of Buddhism.  Most scholars accept the fact that Sid -  dhartha   Gautama   was   a   historical   person,  and, as in the case of Jesus, that many mysti -  cal and legendary events have been attached  to the historical being, making it impossible  to disentangle history from myth and legend.  The events in the Buddha’s life are usually  arranged in a set order, as depicted in litera -  ture and art.  The   first   event   is   Maya’s   Dream.   Maya  was the mother of the future Buddha. She is  portrayed as a woman asleep on a couch, with  a small white elephant, sometimes ridden by a  child, coming down to impregnate her.  The   next   event   is   the   Buddha’s   birth.  When   Maya   was   ready   to   give   birth,   she  asked her husband, Shuddhodana, “to send  her home to her parents; and Shuddhodana,  anxious about his wife and the child she would  bear him, willingly granted her request. While  she passed through the gardens of Lumbini,  the hour arrived; her couch was placed under  a lofty satin-tree and the child came forth  from the womb like the rising sun, bright and  perfect.”  This event is usually portrayed in Buddhist  art as a woman standing with one hand against  a tree trunk, while an attendant receives the  child from Maya’s side. Sometimes accompany -  ing the Buddha’s birth is his bath, in which the  Nagas make a screen for the child’s back. Occa -  sionally the scene will show a small bathtub or  fountain near the child.  The next event is the Buddha’s First Seven  Steps. This scene portrays the infant pacing  forward to each of the cardinal points to which  he had announced the end of birth, old age,  sickness, and death. Each place is marked by a  lotus flower. Being a prince, the future Buddha  had to marry when he became a young man.  For his wife he chose Yashodhara, his cousin.  Their union produced a son, Rahula.  Buddha, The   205  The Buddha

=== 페이지 223 ===
The Four Encounters are the next episode  often portrayed in Buddhist art and literature.  All the happiness one could expect was enjoyed  by the prince. “All sorrowful sights, all misery,  and all knowledge of misery were kept away  from Siddhartha, and he knew not that was evil  in the world,” according to the Buddhist texts.  But the prince ventured out on four occasions  to meet for the first time old age (a man lean -  ing on a staff), sickness (a man lying in a bed),  death (a man in a shroud), and finally poverty  (a man shorn and shaved carrying an alms  bowl). These encounters changed his outlook.  He said, “I see everywhere the impression of  change; therefore, my heart is heavy. Men grow  old, sicken, and die. This is enough to take  away the zest of life.”  The next main event in the Buddha’s life  is called the Great Renunciation. Buddhist art  often portrays this as the prince mounted on  his horse, Kantaka, riding away from the city  with his servant Chandaka. “Thus,” say the  Buddhist texts, “the prince renounced worldly  pleasures, gave up his kingdom, severed all ties,  and went into homelessness.” Sometimes Bud -  dhist art portrays the scene of the future Bud -  dha sending his horse or his servant back to his  home at Kapilavastu. The horse is often shown  kneeling before the future Buddha.  The future Buddha then went in search of  a system to free himself. He practiced intense  mortification but found it futile. He then sat  himself underneath the Bodhi Tree and was  attacked by Mara, who was supreme god of  desire and thus evil for one seeking release  from desire. The scene portrays the future  Buddha   seated   under   the   Bodhi   Tree   with  demons on either side of him. Along with the  demons are beautiful women, meant to seduce  the future Buddha from his aim; however, he  remains unmoved. Often the future Buddha  is portrayed in the   bhumisparsa mudra,   or the  earth-touching gesture. It shows his arm fully  extended, his hand palm downward with the  tips of the fingers just touching the earth. It  symbolizes the call to witness of the earth god -  dess of the future Buddha’s right to sit under  the Bodhi Tree, the Tree of Wisdom.  Having   defeated   Mara,   the   future   Bud -  dha became a Buddha, an Enlightened One.  He saw the Four Noble Truths: (1) existence  is unhappiness; (2) unhappiness is caused by  desire; (3) desire and craving can be overcome  by (4) following the Eightfold Path.  The Eightfold Path is (1) right understand -  ing; (2) right purpose; (3) right speech; (4) right  acts; (5) right way of earning a livelihood; (6)  right efforts; (7) right thoughts; (8) right con -  centration or the right state of a peaceful mind.  The Buddha then went out to make disciples  for his belief. The next episode in the Buddha’s  life is called Preaching the Law or the Sermon in  the Deer Park at Benares. Gathered around him  were men who at first came to laugh at the Bud -  dha. But as they listened to his discourse, they  were converted. In traditional Buddhist texts the  following are examples from the sermon:  The spokes of the wheel are the rules of  pure conduct; justice is the uniformity of  their length; wisdom is the tire; modesty  Buddha preaching the law  206   Buddha. The

=== 페이지 224 ===
and thoughtfulness are the hub in which  the immovable axle of truth is fixed.   .   .   .  He   who   recognizes   the   existence   of  suffering, its cause, its remedy, and its ces -  sation has fathomed the four noble truths.  He will walk in the right path.   .   .   .  Right views will be the torch to light  his   way.   Right   aims   will   be   his   guide.  Right words will be his dwelling-place on  the road.  His gait will be straight, for it is right  behavior.   .   .   .  Whatsoever is originated will be dis -  solved again. All worry about the self is  vain; the ego is like a mirage, and all the  tribulations that touch it will pass away.  They will vanish like a nightmare when  the sleeper awakes.   .   .   .  He who has awakened is freed from  fear; he has become Buddha; he knows the  vanity of all his cares, his ambitions, and  also of his pains.   .   .   .  Happy   is   he   who   has   overcome   all  selfishness; happy is he who has attained  peace; happy is he who has found the  truth.   .   .   .  The truth is noble and sweet; the truth  can deliver you from evil. There is no sav -  ior in the world except the truth.  In Buddhist art the Preaching of the Law  (Dharma) usually portrays the Buddha seated  with his hands in the   dharmacakra mudra.   The  hands are together before the breast; the index  finger of the left hand touches the right hand,  the   finger   and   thumb   of   which   are   joined  at   the   tip.   Sometimes   called   “Turning   the  Wheel of the Law,” the gesture is symbolic of  the Buddha’s preaching. The Buddha may be  seated on a lotus throne or supported by lions.  There also may be a pair of deer, symbolic of  the Deer Park.  The last scene or episode in the Buddha’s  life often is that of the   Parinirvana   (complete  disappearance). It portrays the Buddha appar -  ently asleep, sometimes with mourning figures  around him. After the Buddha’s death his body  was burned, and the relics were recovered for  his followers. An ordinary person’s cremation  is believed to leave only ashes. A holy person’s,  according to Buddhist belief, leaves spherical  crystalline objects,   sharira   (body), suitable for  veneration.  The historical Buddha (anyone who follows  the Eightfold Path can become a Buddha) is  often called Shakyamuni (The Holy One of  the Shakyas)—his clan name plus   muni,   which  means holy man or monk. One of the few titles  applied by the Buddha to himself was Bhagavat  (the Blessed One).  See also:   bodhi tree; dharma; kantaka;  lotus; mara; maya; mudra; naga; yashod -  hara  Buddhas   (enlightened ones)   In Buddhism,  those who have achieved   Bodhi   (Enlightenment).  Aside from the historical Buddha, Gotama,  there are, according to Theravadins, numerous  other Buddhas who existed before the histori -  cal Buddha and Buddhas who will come. The  Mahayanists believe in an infinite number of  Buddhas   20   Buddha’s death

=== 페이지 225 ===
Buddhas. The   Aparimita-Dharani   says, “The  Buddhas who have been, are, and will be, are  more numerous than the grains of sand on the  banks of the Ganges.” In Nepal, for example,  there was a system where some 1,000 Buddhas  were honored. However, the number is greatly  reduced   in   some   other   Buddhist   mytholo -  gies. There is a group of 25, beginning with  Dipankara Buddha and ending with the histori -  cal Buddha, Gotama. Sometimes the last 7 of  the 25 are recognized as the Principal Buddhas,  with   the   Buddha   Maitreya   (the   Buddha   of  the Future) as number 8, a sacred number of  the Buddhists. All Buddhists believe in the  existence of numerous Buddhas. Theravadins  hold that there is only one Buddha at a time;  Mahayanists hold to the simultaneous existence  of many Buddhas in different world systems.  See also:   bodhi; mahayana; maitreya  Bue   In Micronesian mythology, culture hero  of the Gilbert Islands who ascended to the  sky and brought back fire to humankind. Bue  also taught people how to construct boats and  houses and to sing and dance.  Buffalo Bill   (1846–1917)   In American his -  tory and folklore, the popular name of William  Frederick Cody, scout and showman. Born in  Iowa, Buffalo Bill’s family moved West, where  he had various jobs as “herder, hunter, pony  express rider, stage driver, wagon master in  the quartermaster’s department, and scout of  the army,” to quote from his press agent. In  1867 Cody took up the trade that gave him  his nickname, hunting buffalo to feed the con -  struction crews of the Kansas Pacific Railroad.  By his own count, he killed 4,280 head of buf -  falo in 17 months. It is said that he won the  name “Buffalo Bill” in an eight-hour shooting  match with a man named William Comstock,  to determine which of the two Buffalo Bill’s  deserved the title. In 1883 he organized Buffalo  Bill’s Wild West show, which increased his  reputation, as did a series of dime novels by  Prentise   Ingraham   and   Ned   Buntline   (pen  name for the writer E. Z. C. Judson). More a  product of publicity than of folklore, the hero  appears in two Hollywood films,   Buffalo Bill  and   Buffalo Bill and the Indians, or Sitting Bull’s  History Lesson,   in which Buffalo Bill and his  friends discuss his legend and life.  See also:   annie oakley  Buga   (god)   In Siberian mythology, creator  god among the Transbaikal Tungus. Buga took  materials from the four quarters of the earth.  The east supplied him with iron; the south,  with fire; the west, with water; and the north,  with earth. Out of the earth he created flesh  and bones for the first two people; out of the  iron, the heart; out of the water, blood; and out  of fire, warmth.  Bulla   (bubble)   In Roman cult, a round or  heart-shaped box containing an amulet, worn  around   the   neck   by   freeborn   Roman   male  children. To wear a golden   bulla   was origi -  nally a privilege of the patricians but later  was extended to rich and distinguished non -  patrician families. Leather   bullae   were worn  by children of poor families and of freedmen  (former slaves). Boys ceased to wear the   bulla  when they assumed the   toga virilis   at age 16 or  17. The   bulla   was then dedicated to the Lares,  household gods, and hung up over the hearth.  Girls did not wear the   bulla   at marriage. It was  sometimes worn by adults on special occasions  as a protection against the evil eye.  See also:   lares  Bumba   In African mythology (Bushong of  the Congo), creator god; a gigantic white being  in human form. Bumba existed alone in the  universe when there was nothing but water.  One day he felt severe internal stomach pains  and vomited up the sun, moon, and stars, thus  giving light to the world. The heat from the  sun’s rays dried up the water, and sand banks  began to appear. Bumba then vomited up eight  living creatures: a leopard, a crested eagle, a  crocodile, a small fish, a tortoise, a white heron,  20    Bue

=== 페이지 226 ===
a beetle, and a goat. Then Bumba created  humankind, among whom were three of his  sons. The human race was given laws and cus -  toms to follow as well as rulers. When Bumba  felt he had finished his work, he left for his  home in the sky. Now he communicates with  men through dreams and visions.  Bunjil   In Australian mythology, creator sky  god and culture hero. According to one version  of the creation myth, Bunjil formed rivers, trees,  plants, and hills from the bare land. At first there  were only animals, then Bunjil created the first  men out of clay. His brother, the Bat, created  woman from the mud in the depths of the water.  After the creation, Bunjil taught the people the  sacred rites and customs, then left for his home  in the sky. In Australian ground reliefs Bunjil  is portrayed as a man with a large phallus and  a mouth filled with a quartz crystal. Though  Bunjil is one of the most common names for the  creator god in Australia, other names also are  assigned to him, such as Daramulum, Baiame,  Nurrundere, or Ngurunderi. As Daramulum, he  is said to be the son of Baiame and the husband  of Ngalalbal. In Daramulum’s creation myth he  leaves the earth after a great flood and returns  to the sky.  See also:   baiame; earth diver; ngalalbal  Bunyip   In   Australian   mythology,   an   evil  water monster who lives in mud at the bottoms  of lakes. Also called Moolgewanke, he pulls his  victims down and drowns them. He is depicted  as half man, half fish, and has a crop of reeds  in his hair.  See also:   goin  Buri   In Germanic mythology, the first of  the Aesir, father of Bur who with the giantess  Bestla was the father of Odin, Vili, and Ve.  He is part of the creation story, being licked  from a salt block by the cow Audhumla. The  pattern of a single father whose son then has  three sons is also found in Tacitus’s   Germania  (98   c.e. ), where the god Tuisto bore a son  named Mannus who himself had three sons,  from whose names derive those of the three  Germanic tribes: those nearest the ocean are  called   the   Ingaevones,   those   in   the   center  are   the   Herminones,   and   the   rest   are   the  Istaevones.  See also:   aesir; audhumla; bestla; odin,  vili  Burkhan   (Burkhan-Bakshi)   In   Siberian  mythology, a creator god in a myth told by  the Buriat. Burkhan created a man completely  covered by hair but in need of a soul or spirit  to bring him to life. Burkhan left a dog to  guard the body while he went off to heaven to  fetch the soul. The dog, tricked by Shulman,  the devil, let the devil remove all of the hair  from the man’s body except for certain parts.  If the devil had not touched man, he would  never get sick.  Busiris   (grave of Osiris)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a king of Egypt, the son of Poseidon and  Lysianassa, a daughter of Epaphus. According  to one myth, Busiris’s country had been in the  midst of a nine-year series of crop failures when  Phrasius of Cyprus, a prophet, told Busiris to  sacrifice a stranger every year to Zeus. The  king made Phrasius the first sacrificial victim.  When Heracles came to Egypt during his quest  for the apples of the Hesperides, he allowed  himself to be bound and taken to the altar as  a victim. Then he broke his bonds and killed  Busiris, as well as the king’s son Amphidamas  and all of his followers.  See also:   heracles; hesperides; poseidon;  zeus  Bussumarus   (the   large-lipped)   In   Celtic  mythology, a god worshipped by the continen -  tal Celts, identified by ancient Roman writers  with their god Jupiter.  Bustan, The   ( Bostan ) (the orchard)   Didactic  poem, consisting of numerous fables, by the  Persian poet Sadi, written in 1257.  Bustan, The   20 

=== 페이지 227 ===
The Bustan   is a mystical book by a Sufi poet  consisting   of   “dissertations   of   Justice,   good  government, beneficence, earthly and mystic  love,   humility,   submissiveness,   contentment  and other excellencies.” It was translated into  Latin and became known in Europe. Jeremy  Taylor, an Anglican divine who lived in the  17th century, retold a fable from   The Bustan  in one of his works. Benjamin Franklin came  upon the fable in Taylor’s work and, as a hoax,  passed it off as a missing chapter from the Book  of Genesis in the Old Testament.  Three fables bring out the mystical element  in the work. “The Moth and the Flame” is one  of the best known.  One night a moth, flying near a burning can -  dle, said, “Ah, my beloved, I am your lover and  weep with desire, and burn with pleasure; that is  expected of me, but why do I see you weeping.”  “The   honey   of   my   life   melts   from   my  brow,” the flame answered. “You fly near my  naked flame, desiring, yet afraid of your desire,  but I consume, exhale, glow, and expire.”  A man then came and put out the flame.  “Look, lover,” the dying flame said. “Love  now   ends.   Dying   thou   gainest   love’s   best  ecstasy!”  “The Sufi and the Slanderer” brings out the  wisdom of a Sufi.  One day a man said to a Sufi, “You do not  even know how they talk behind your back.”  “Silence,” said the Sufi. “It is best not to  know   what   your   enemies   say   behind   your  back.” Sadi’s moral is:  A talebearer gives to old war a fresh life,  And urges a good, gentle person to strife.  Fly away from that comrade, while  strength in you lies! (Davie translation).  “The Tale of the Pearl” has an almost New  Testament cast to it.  A droplet of rain descended from a cloud  to the sea, but it was ashamed when it saw how  vast the sea was.  “Who may I be,” the droplet said, “when  the sea is so vast. If the sea has existence, then  I have none.”  But Sadi adds the moral conclusion:  Since in its own eyes the drop humble  appeared,  In its bosom, a shell with its life the drop  reared;  The sky brought the work with success to  a close,  And a famed royal pearl from the rain -  drop arose.  Because it was humble it excellence gained;  Patiently waiting till success was obtained  (Davie translation).  See also:   shah namah  Butch   Cassidy   (1866–1911?)   In   U.S.   his -  tory and legend, assumed name of Robert Leroy  Parker, leader of the Wild Bunch, an outlaw  gang consisting of Kid Curry, Harry Longbaugh  (the Sundance Kid), Ben Kilpatrick (the Tall  Texan), Harry Tracy, Elza Lay, Deaf Charley  Hanks, and other criminals. When the railroads  hired   the   Pinkerton   Agency   to   chase   down  Cassidy, he and Harry Longbaugh, along with  Etta Place (who was likely a girl named Ann  Bassett), fled to South America and purchased  a ranch in Argentina. After a few years of trying  to make it as ranchers, the pair again turned to  their previous method of obtaining money, rob -  bery. According to one account, Butch Cassidy  and the Sundance Kid were killed by Bolivian  troops in 1911 in the village of San Vicente. But  legend says they both escaped death. Cassidy  is said to have returned to the United States  and died in 1937, and the Sundance Kid is said  to have lived to 1957. Their romantic legend  as thieves was used in the Hollywood movie  Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,   starring Paul  Newman and Robert Redford.  Butes   (herdsman)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  Thracian,   the   son   of   Boreas.   His   brother  2  0   Butch Cassidy

=== 페이지 228 ===
Lycurgus,   whom   he   had   tried   to   murder,  banished him, and he settled on the island of  Strongyle (or Naxos). Finding no women there  to marry, he went to Thessaly and carried off  some of the women while they were celebrating  a sacrifice to Dionysus. One of these, Coronis,  whom he raped and forced to be his wife,  prayed to Dionysus for vengeance. In retalia -  tion Dionysus drove him mad, and Butes threw  himself into a well. Butes is also the name of an  Athenian hero, son of the Athenians Pandion  and Zeuxippe. He was a tiller of the soil and a  priest of Athena and Poseidon. He was believed  to be the ancestor of the priestly caste of the  Butadae and Eteobutadae. He was worshipped  at an altar in Erechtheum with Poseidon and  Hephaestus. Variant myths say he was the son  of Teleon and Zeuxippe and took part in the  expedition of the Argonauts. Another Butes,  a Sicilian hero, was also on the   Argo.   He was  enticed by the Sirens’ song and leaped into the  sea but was rescued and brought to Lilybaeum  in Sicily by Aphrodite. He became the father of  Eryx by Aphrodite.  See   also:   aphrodite; argo; argonauts;  athena;   boreas;   dionysus;   hephaestus;  poseidon  Buto   (Bouto)   In Egyptian mythology, Greek  name for the cobra, or uraeus, goddess Utachet  (Wadjet, Inadjet, Edjo), protector of Lower  Egypt. Her twin sister, Nekhebet the vulture,  was the goddess of Upper Egypt.  Buto helped the goddess Isis hide from the  demonic god Set, the murderer of Isis’s broth -  erhusband, Osiris. Isis retreated to the papyrus  swamps to give birth to her son Horus, who  would in time avenge his father’s death. Set  never succeeded in finding her hiding place  because Buto caused the papyrus and other  plants to screen Isis from view. She further  helped to camouflage Horus by shaking her  hair over him.  In The Book of the Dead Utachet gener -  ally plays the part of destroyer of the foes of  the   deceased.   During   the   ceremonies   con -  nected with embalming, the priest addresses  the mummy, saying, “The goddess Utachet  [Buto] cometh unto thee in the form of the liv -  ing uraeus, to anoint thy head.”  Egyptian art portrays Buto as a woman  wearing   on   her   head   the   crown   of   Lower  Egypt. In one hand she holds the papyrus  scepter, around which is sometimes twined a  snake. In some pictures she bears the crown of  Lower Egypt in her right hand, about to place  it on the head of the king. Occasionally, she  appears as a winged serpent with the crown of  the north, or Lower Egypt, on her head.  See also:   book of the dead ,   the; horus;  isis; osiris; nekhebet; pyramid texts; set;  uraeus; utachet  butterfly   Any of numerous diurnal insects  with a slender body and broad, often brightly  colored wings. In Christian symbolism the but -  terfly is a sign of the Resurrection of Christ,  based on its natural order of caterpillar, chrysa -  lis, and then butterfly—life, death, and resurrec -  tion. However, some ancient mystical groups,  such as the Gnostics, saw the butterfly as a  symbol of corrupt flesh. The Angel of Death  in Gnostic artworks was portrayed crushing a  butterfly. In Slavic countries it was believed that  butterflies were symbols of the soul, issued from  the mouths of witches to invade living bodies  when the true soul was absent.  See also:   gnosticism  Buurt-kuuruk   In Australian mythology, an  evil spirit in the form of a woman as tall as a gum  tree, which can range to 50 feet in five years.  Byelobog and Chernobog   (Byelbog, Cer-  nobog,   Zcernoboch)   (white   god   and   black  god)  In Slavic mythology, one white and one  black   god,   representing   the   dual   nature   of  good and evil in the world. Byelobog went  about in daytime helping lost travelers find  their   way   out   of   the   dark   forest.   He   also  bestowed wealth and fertility and helped with  Byelobog and Chernobog   2 

=== 페이지 229 ===
the harvest. In White Russian popular legends,  he was called Belun (Byelun) and was por -  trayed as an old man dressed in white with a  white beard. His evil counterpart, Chernobog,  represented darkness and evil. Chernobog was  particularly feared in northern Russia, where  darkness prevailed for long periods each year.  In western Slavic folklore, which had contact  with Christianity, Chernobog acquired many  of the traits of the Christians’ devil.  Byggvir   (barley?)   In Norse mythology, the  personification of the barley god, husband of  Beyla; servant of Frey. He appears in the   Prose  Edda   in the poem   Loki Asena   (Loki’s mocking).  See also:   frey; loki;   prose edda  Byleipt   (raging fire)   In Norse mythology,  brother to the fire-trickster god Loki, or mere -  ly another name for the god. One kenning for  Loki is “Byleipt’s brother.” He appears in the  Prose Edda.  See also:   kenning; loki;   prose edda  bylina   (pl.:   bylini ) (true story)   In medieval  Russia, an oral heroic song or poem, originally  sung by court minstrels and in recent centuries  by   skaziteli,   peasant bards.  The   bylini   are usually about 300 lines long.  They are in verse and are intended to be sung or  chanted. The earliest   bylini   came from the 10th  or 11th century, but the content is much older.  Many tell of the exploits of the   bogatyrs,   or epic  heroes, such as Ilya Muromets, Potok-Mikhailo-  Ivanovich, Syyatogor, Volkh, Mikula, and Alio -  sha Popovich. All of these   bogatyrs   were men of  superhuman strength who used their physical  power as well as their cunning to defend Russia  from the “infidels” and foreign invaders. Their  adventures usually took place around the city of  Kiev, under the rule of Prince Vladimir, some -  time in the 11th or 12th century. Another cycle  of   bylini,   centering around the city of Novgorod,  tell of the merchant   bogatyr   Sadko. They are  dated somewhat later, perhaps the 13th to the  15th century, though scholars differ.  The   bylina   “Why   There   Are   No   More  Bogatyrs in Holy Russia” tells how, after a suc -  cessful battle one of the   bogatyrs,   Ilya Murom -  ets pridefully said he could conquer any enemy.  God first sent two men who, when sliced in  half, multiplied into four, and so on until they  became a large army and attacked Ilya Mur -  omets. The battle lasted “for three days, three  hours and three brief minutes.” Out of fear the  bogatyrs   fled to a mountain, where they were all  turned to stone.  See   also:   aliosha popovich; ilya mur -  omets; mikula; potok-mikhailo-ivanovich;  sadko; svyatogor; vladimir, st.; volkh  2  2   Byggvir

=== 페이지 230 ===
6  2  3  C  Cabauil   Among   the   Quiché   Maya   of  Guatemala, generic name for god, sometimes  erroneously translated as “idol.”  cabbage   A plant of the mustard family that  forms a head and is eaten as a vegetable. In one  European folk belief babies are found under  cabbage leaves. In Irish folklore cabbage stalks  serve fairy spirits as steeds. One folktale tells  of a farmer near Cork who was believed to be  under the control of fairies in his garden. For  a long time he suffered from the “falling sick -  ness” (epilepsy) owing to the long journeys he  was forced to make with the fairy folk, night  after night, on one of his own cabbage stalks.  Cabeiri   (great,   mighty?)   In   Greek   and  Roman mythology, ancient deities worshipped  with secret rites especially in Boeotia and at  Lemnos and Samothrace along the coast of the  Aegean Sea and on the Aegean islands. Cabeiri  is also the name of the children of Uranus,  according to some accounts the first people; or  children of Camillus, son of Cabeiro, who had  three daughters, called Caberides, and three  sons, Cabeiri; or sons of Zeus and Calliope,  called the Cabeiri of Samothrace.  See also:   calliope; uranus; zeus  Caca   (excrement?)   In   Roman   mythology,  ancient Italian goddess of the hearth whose  cult was supplanted by Vesta, also a Roman  hearth   goddess.   Caca   was   the   daughter   of  Vulcan and Medusa and the sister of Cacus,  a fire-breathing giant with three heads who  lived in a cave on Mount Palatine in Rome.  He was killed by Heracles. Caca was also said  to be the goddess of excrement, and the word  is sometimes used in present-day vulgar Italian  for excrement.  See also:   heracles; vesta; vulcan  Cacce-jielle and Cacce-jienne   In Lapland  mythology, water gods. Cacce-jielle appeared in  various forms—an old man, a beautiful woman,  a naked child, or a fish. When he appeared as  a fish in a piece of bread, a coin or brandy was  offered to appease his evil spirit. His compan -  ion, Caccejienne, the water mother, appeared  as a naked woman emerging from the water to  comb her hair, often enticing men to fall in love  with her and then drowning them. Other water  spirits were Jengk-tongk, Vit-khan, Vu-murt,  Kul,   Vasa,   Vut-oza,   Vut-kuguza,   Vut-kuva,  Ved-eraj,   Vesta-erag,   Veeneiu   or   Mereneiu,  and Vetehinen.  See also:   lorlei  Cachimana   In the mythology of the Orinoco  Indians of South America, the great spirit who  regulated the seasons and harvests. He was  opposed by an evil spirit, Iolokiamo, who was

=== 페이지 231 ===
less powerful but cleverer and more active than  Cachimana. He is the trickster of the region.  See also:   trickster  Cacus   In Roman mythology, a fire-spitting  giant, son of Vulcan and Medusa; brother of  Caca, who was goddess of excrement.  When Heracles, with the cattle of Geryon,  wandered into the vicinity of Cacus’s cave,  Cacus stole some of the cattle while Heracles  was sleeping. Cacus dragged them backward  into his cave so that their hoof prints would  seem to be going in the opposite direction. He  then closed the entrance to the cave with a rock  so heavy that 10 pairs of oxen could not budge  it. The lowing of the cattle in the cave guided  Heracles to their hiding place. He moved the  rock, opened the cave, and killed Cacus with  his club. At the site of the cave Heracles then  built an altar to Jupiter, under the title Pater  Inventor (the discoverer). He then sacrificed  one of the cows on the altar.  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 8) locates the cave  of Cacus on the Aventine in Rome. Medieval  Christian writers saw Heracles’ triumph over  the giant Cacus as a symbol of the forces of  evil being vanquished by those of good. The  French artist Poussin painted the scene, as did  Domenichino. There is an engraving by Dürer  on the subject. In literature Cacus was the  standard for thievery. Cervantes wrote: “There  you will find the Lord Rinaldo of Montalban,  with his friends and companions, all of them  greater thieves than Cacus.” The English nov -  elist Sir Walter Scott wrote: “Our hero, feeling  his curiosity considerably excited by the idea  of visiting the den of an Highland Cacus, took  however, the precaution to inquire if his guide  might be trusted.”  See   also:   aeneid, the;   caca; heracles;  jupiter  Cadmus   (spear, shield)   In Greek mythology,  culture hero, king of Thebes; son of Agenor of  Phoenicia and Argiore (or Telephassa); brother  of Cilix, Electra, Demodoce, Phineus, Thasus,  Europa, and Phoenix; married Harmonia; father  of Agave, Autonoe, Illyrius, Ino, Polydorus, and  Semele. Cadmus’s sister Europa was carried off  and raped by Zeus. Cadmus and his brothers  Phoenix and Cilix were sent out with the com -  mand to find Europa. They were forbidden  to return to Phoenicia without their sister. In  the course of their wanderings they arrived  in Thrace, where Cadmus’s mother, who had  accompanied him so far, died. Cadmus then  asked the Delphic oracle what he should do.  He was told to cease his search for Europa and  Cadmus  2  4   Cacus

=== 페이지 232 ===
follow a certain cow and to establish a city on  the spot where the cow would lie down. The  cow met Cadmus in Phocis and led him to  the site that was to become Boeotia. Cadmus  wanted to sacrifice the cow to Athena, so he  sent his companions to a nearby spring to bring  water for the rites. The spring was guarded by  a dragon-serpent, the offspring of Ares and  the Erinys Tilphosa. When the men did not  return in a short time, Cadmus went in search  of them. He found the dragon-serpent feed -  ing on their flesh, and he killed the monster.  (Medieval European paintings show the beast  with wings.) Athena then advised Cadmus to  sow the teeth of the dragon like seeds. He did  so, and immediately a crop of armed warriors  sprang up. Cadmus then flung a stone into  their midst. A battle broke out, and all but five  of the men killed each other. The five were  called Spartoi (sown men). They were Echion  (snake man), Udaeus (ground man), Chthonius  (earth man), Hyperenor (superman or over -  bearing), and Pelorus (monster).  The price Cadmus had to pay for killing  the dragon of Ares was to serve the god for an  “eternal” year—about eight years, the period of  banishment for a homicide. Afterward Athena  made him ruler of Thebes. Zeus gave Harmo -  nia, the daughter of Aphrodite and Ares, to  Cadmus as his wife. Cadmus gave Harmonia an  outer robe or cloak and a necklace made by the  craft god Hephaestus.  As   further   punishment   for   killing   Ares’  dragon-serpent, many of the children of Cadmus  and Harmonia died. Childless, the couple left  Thebes and settled in the country of the Enche -  lians. The people received them kindly, making  Cadmus their king. One day Cadmus said, “If  a serpent’s life is so dear to the gods, I would I  were myself a serpent.” No sooner had Cadmus  uttered the words than he began to change into  a snake. When Harmonia saw him, she asked the  gods to grant her the same. The two became ser -  pents. When they died, they went to Elysium.  Later   Greek   mythology   credits   Cadmus  with the invention of the Greek alphabet and  the art of mining and with the introduction of  the worship of Dionysus. Lord Byron refers to  the belief that Cadmus invented the alphabet:  You have the letters Cadmus gave  Think you he meant them for a slave?  In   Paradise Lost   (book 9.503–506) Milton  refers to the changing of Cadmus and Harmo -  nia into serpents:  .   .   . pleasing was his shape,  And lovely: never since of serpent kind  Lovelier; not those that in Illyria changed  Hermione and Cadmus.   .   .   .  (Milton confused Hermione with Harmonia.)  Matthew Arnold’s play   Empedocles on Aetna  refers to Harmonia and Cadmus’s tale:  .   .   . Two bright and aged snakes  Who once were Cadmus and Harmonia,  Back in the glens or on the warm sea shore,  In breathless quiet after all their ills.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 3), Chaucer’s  Knight’s Tale, and Alexander Pope’s   Thebais   all  refer to the myth.  See also:   agenor; aphrodite; areas; athena;  chaucer;   culture   hero;   delphi;   dionysus;  electra; elysium; harmonia; ovid; zeus  caduceus   (herald   staff)   In   Greek   and  Roman mythology, a magic wand consisting of  a rod topped by wings and intertwined by two  snakes; called   kery keionin   in Greek. The cadu -  ceus was carried by Hermes in Greek myths  and Mercury in Roman mythology. Originally,  the   caduceus   was   represented   as   a   simple  staff wound about with two white ribbons. It  was a symbol of authority and inviolability  and protected the herald who carried it. In  Homer’s   Iliad   and   Odyssey   the caduceus is often  mentioned as a type of magic wand by which  Hermes opened and closed the eyes of mortals.  It was therefore connected with death and the  caduceus   2  5

=== 페이지 233 ===
journey through the underworld. Later myth  says Hermes once threw his magic wand at  two snakes fighting on the ground. The snakes  became entangled in the magic wand and have  been attached to it ever since. The wings at  the top were added in later Greek and Roman  art. In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 4) the caduceus is  said to have been given to Mercury by Apollo  in exchange for the lyre. Milton, calling it  Hermes’ “opiate rod” in   Paradise Lost   (book  11.133), refers to the belief that the caduceus  can induce sleep. Today the caduceus is associ -  ated with medicine because it was one of the  symbols of Asclepius, the god of medicine for  the ancients. Le Sage, in   Gil Blas   (1715) writes:  “I did not think the post of Mercury-in-chief  quite so honorable as it was called .   .   . and  resolved to abandon the Caduceus [give up the  medical profession] for ever.”  See also:   aeneid, the ; apollo; asclepius;  cadmus; hermes;   iliad, the;   mercury;   odyssey,  the  Caeculus   In Roman mythology, a son of  Vulcan and the sister of the Frates Delpidii;  ally of Turnus in the war against the Trojans.  Caeculus’s   mother   became   impregnated   by  Vulcan when a spark from heaven fell into her  bosom. Her son Caeculus, however, became a  robber. In time he built the city of Praeneste  and wanted to find citizens to inhabit it, but  no one would consent to live there. Caeculus  then prayed to Vulcan, asking him to show the  gathered crowd that the god was his father. A  flame suddenly shot up, and the mob, moved  by the miracle, consented to become citizens  of   Praeneste.   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book   7)   says  Caeculus was born among herds in the country,  exposed by his mother to die, and later found  near the hearth at a shrine of Jupiter.  See also:   aeneid, the;   jupiter; vulcan  Caeneus   (new)   In Greek mythology, a Lapith  chieftain who was born a girl, Caenis, daughter  of the Thessalian king Elatus and Hippea, and  later transformed into a man. He was the father  of Coronus and the brother of Polyphemus  and Ischys. As a girl, Caeneus was very beauti -  ful and caught the eye of Poseidon, who raped  her. The god then offered to grant her any  wish. She chose to be turned into a man so she  could not be raped again. The god granted her  request. Caeneus then became the leader of the  Lapiths. When the Lapiths and centaurs had  their great battle at the wedding of Peirithous  and Hippodameia, Caeneus killed several of the  foe. However, he offended Zeus and was beaten  on the head with fir trees or else buried beneath  a pile of them. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12)  says Caeneus was finally changed into a bird.  See   also:   centaurs;   ovid;   polyphemus;  poseidon; zeus  Cagn   In African mythology (Bushman), cre -  ator god who often appears as a mantis or  caterpillar. His wife, Coti, bore him two sons,  Gogaz and Gowi, both culture heroes, who  taught the people how to make digging tools  with   sharp   stone   points.   Cagn’s   mysterious  power   was   believed   to   reside   in   his   tooth,  which he sometimes lent to others who wanted  added strength. After he created the world,  Cagn became annoyed with man’s stupidity and  left. No one knows where he went. The north -  Caduceus  2  6   Caeculus

=== 페이지 234 ===
ern Bushmen call him Cagn or Kang, and the  southern Bushmen call him Thora.  Cahá-Paluna   (standing water falling from  above?)   In   Mayan   mythology,   wife   of   the  first man and culture hero, Balam-Quitzé, of  the Quiché Maya of Guatemala. Cahá-Paluna  is called a “distinguished woman” in the   Popol  Vuh,   the sacred book of the Quiché.  See also:   balam quitzé;   popol vuh  Caicas   In Greek mythology, the northeast  wind, son of Eos and Astraeus.  Cain and Abel   (smith and meadow? breath?)  In Jewish, Christian, and Islamic mythology,  first children of Adam and Eve.  In the Old Testament (Gen. 4:1–15) Cain  murdered his brother Abel (the reason is not  given) and became a “fugitive and a vagabond”  on the earth (Gen. 4:12). God marked Cain  with a sign to protect him from the vengeance  of others for the murder, though the term  “mark of Cain” has come to signify a stigma for  an outlaw (Gen. 4:15). In medieval Christian  belief Abel was the first martyr, a prefiguration  of Christ because he suffered an unjust death.  In Islamic legend, Cain and Abel are called  Kabil and Habil. Kabil (Cain) and Habil (Abel)  each had a twin sister. Kabil’s twin sister was  Aclima, and Habil’s twin was Jumella. Adam  wanted Kabil to marry Jumella and Habil to  marry Aclima. Kabil, however, rejected the idea.  Adam then said God would be asked through  a sacrifice to decide. Sacrifice was made, and  Kabil’s offering was rejected, signifying that  God did not approve of Kabil’s rejection of the  marriage. In a fit of anger Kabil killed Habil.  For some time Kabil carried around the dead  body of his brother, until he saw a raven scratch  a hole in the ground to bury a dead bird. Kabil  took the hint and buried Habil in the ground.  Medieval Christian belief held that Cain  had   a   yellowish   or   sandy-red   beard,   which  Cain and Abel   2   Cain and Abel

=== 페이지 235 ===
then became a symbol of murder and treason  and was used in medieval art to depict Cain,  Judas, and the Jews. (Yellow became a color for  anti-Semitic propaganda.) Shakespeare in   The  Merry Wives of Windsor   (act 1, sc. 4, line 22),  writes: “He hath but a little wee face, with a  little yellow beard, a Cain-colored beard.”  The biblical account inspired Samuel Taylor  Coleridge’s prose poem   The Wanderings of Cain  and Lord Byron’s poetic drama   Cain, A Mystery,  in which Cain’s wife is called Adah (adornment).  See   also:   adam and eve; banba; judas  iscariot  Calais   (green-blue   gemstone)   In   Greek  mythology, an Argonaut; son of Boreas and  Orithyia;   twin   brother   of   Zetes   (searcher).  Calais and Zetes aided Jason as Argonauts.  Both were given wings for recovering Phineus  from the Harpies in Bithynia. When they were  killed, they were transformed into birds. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 8) gives the myth.  See   also:   argonauts;   boreas;   harpies;  jason; ovid; zetes  Calamity   Jane   (1848–1903)   In   U.S.   his -  tory and folklore, popular name for Martha  Jane Canary, noted for her marksmanship, who  dressed as a man. She got her nickname in 1872  in a peculiar way. She was at that time at Goose  Creek Camp, South Dakota, where Captain  Egan, commander of the post at Goose Creek  (now Sheridan), Wyoming, and a small body of  men were stationed. In a battle with the Indians  Captain Egan and his men were surrounded  and had to fight desperately for their lives.  Captain Egan was wounded and had fallen off  his horse. Suddenly, it is said, a woman rode  into the center of the trouble, dismounted, lift -  ed the captain in front of her on her saddle, and  rode away. When he recovered, Captain Egan  laughingly spoke of Miss Canary as “Calamity  Jane,” and the name clung to her.  Some accounts allege that she was a lesbian  and that her affair with Wild Bill Hickok was a  cover-up, because he was said to be homosexual  as well. But Hollywood’s movie   Calamity Jane,  starring Doris Day and Howard Keel, tells  how Calamity Jane wins the love of Hickok. It  was from her that Bret Harte took his famous  character of Cherokee Sal in “The Luck of  Roaring Camp.”  Calchas   (brazen)   In   Greek   mythology,  a soothsayer, son of Thestor and Megaera;  brother of Alcmeon, Leucippe, and Theonoe;  father of Cressida. Calchas was an Argonaut  who accompanied Agamemnon’s army in the  Trojan War. Homer, in the   Iliad   (book 1),  says that Calchas was the “most excellent of  augurs, who knew of things that were and that  should be and that had been before.” In post-  Homeric myth, it was Calchas whose predic -  tions demanded the sacrifice of Iphigenia as  well as the building of the wooden horse. He  died when he met another soothsayer, Mopsus,  who beat him at guessing how many figs were  in the branches of a certain fig tree. Some  accounts say he died of grief; others say he  took his own life. Another myth tells that he  died laughing when, as he raised a cup of wine,  someone said he would never live to drink it.  See also:   agamemnon; argonauts;   iliad, the  Caleuche   In the folklore of the Araucanian  Indians of Chile, a witch boat, seen illuminated  at night, carrying fishermen to the treasure  stores at the bottom of the sea.  Callidice   (fair justice)   In Greek mythology,  queen of Thesprotia and a wife of Odysseus after  the Trojan War. According to some accounts,  when   Odysseus   was   returning   to   Ithaca,   he  stopped off at Thesprotia and married Callidice,  who bore him a son, Polypoetes. When Callidice  died, Odysseus continued on his journey and left  the kingdom to Polypoetes.  See also:   odysseus  Calliope   (beautiful voice, fair face)   In Greek  mythology, one of the nine Muses, the Muse of  epic or heroic poetry; daughter of Zeus and  2    Calais

=== 페이지 236 ===
Mnemosyne; mother of Orpheus and Linus by  the Thracian king Oeagrus (or by Apollo). She  is portrayed in Western art with a tablet and  stylus or a trumpet. Often she holds a laurel  crown. In 17th-century paintings, books such  as the   Iliad, Odyssey,   and   Aeneid   are shown as  part of her attributes.  See also:   aeneid, the; iliad, the;   apollo;  muse;   odyssey, the;   orpheus  Callirrhoë   (fair flowing)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, daughter of the river god Achelous; sister  of Castalia and Peirene; unwittingly sent her  husband Alcmaeon to his death by persuading  him to obtain Harmonia’s necklace and robe  from Alphesiboea. When Alphesiboea’s broth -  ers   discovered   the   attempt,   they   murdered  him. Callirrhoë is also the name of a daughter  of Oceanus and Tethys and the mother of the  three-headed cowherd Geryon, Cerberus, and  Echidna,   according   to   some   accounts.   The  name is also that of a daughter of the Trojan  river god Scamander; she was married to Tros  and mother of Assaracus, Cleopatra, Ilus, and  Ganymede. She killed herself, and a fountain  in Attica is named after her.  Diana and Callisto   (Titian)  Callirrhoë   2 

=== 페이지 237 ===
See   also:   achelous; alcmaeon; alphesi -  boea; castalia; ganymede; geryon; harmo -  nia; oceanus  Callisto   (fairest)   In   Greek   mythology,   an  Arcadian nymph, follower of Artemis; daughter  of Lycam and Cyllene (or Nycteus or Cereus);  sister   of   Pallas;   mother   of   Arcas   by   Zeus.  Callisto was transformed into a bear and placed  in the heavens as the Great Bear along with her  son Arcas as the Little Bear.  Callisto was a follower of Artemis and had  taken a vow of chastity. Zeus, ever lustful,  saw her one day resting alone in the woods.  Disguising himself as the goddess Artemis, he  began caressing Callisto. Before the girl was  fully aware of what was happening, he raped  her. In order to keep his adultery a secret from  his wife, Hera, the god changed Callisto into a  bear. A variant account says Artemis discovered  the girl was pregnant and metamorphosed her  into a bear. Another account says that Hera  changed the girl into a bear when she discov -  ered Zeus’s infidelity.  The   story’s   ending   also   varies   consider -  ably in the ancient accounts. In some versions  Artemis shoots Callisto while she is out hunting  with Hera, who points out the bear. Zeus sends  Hermes to save the baby Arcas, who is then  brought up by Maia, Hermes’ mother. Another  story is that Arcas, when grown up, saw the bear  in the woods and, not knowing the bear was his  mother, killed it. Still another variation tells how  the bear wandered into the sacred shrine of Zeus  Lycaeus and was killed for sacrilege.  The fate of Callisto, however, finds all of  the accounts in agreement. Zeus transported  her to the stars as the constellation Arctos, the  Great Bear. Either at the same time or later he  placed their son Arcas as the nearby constella -  tion Arctophylax, which appears to be guarding  the Great Bear. Hera, however, was not at all  happy at this and appealed to Tethys, the sea  goddess and Hera’s old nurse. She asked that  Tethys and her husband Oceanus never permit  Callisto to enter their realm. They agreed, and  that is why the Great Bear is doomed to revolve  ceaselessly about the North Star. The ancient  Arcadians showed visitors a tomb of Callisto on  a hill, the top of which contained a sanctuary  of Artemis Calliste, indicating that Callisto was  another form of the goddess Artemis. The she-  bear was the animal associated with the cult of  Artemis Calliste.  Sources for the myth of Callisto are Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 2), Hyginus’s   Fabulae   and  Poetica Astronomica,   and Apollodorus’s   Biblio -  theca   (Library).  The rape of Callisto is the theme of the  painting   Jupiter   and   Callisto   by   François  Boucher, the French artist. He shows Jupiter in  his female disguise as Artemis. Titian painted  Diana and Callisto,   portraying the goddess dis -  covering that Callisto is pregnant.  See also:   arcadia; arcas; artemis; hera;  heracles; maia; nymphs; oceanus; pallas;  tethys  Calydon   In   Greek   mythology,   son   of  Thestius, accidentally killed by his father; also  the name of the son of Aetolus and Pronoe;  the brother of Pleuron; husband of Aeolia; and  father of Epicasta and Protogeneia. Calydon is  also the name of a son of Ares and Astynome,  turned into stone for seeing the goddess Artemis  bathe. Finally, Calydon is the city of Aetolla,  Greece, founded by Calydon and Pleuron, the  setting for the Calydonian boar hunt.  See also:   ares; artemis; calydonian boar  hunt  Calydonian Boar Hunt   In Greek mythol -  ogy, the Calydonian boar was sent by Artemis to  ravage the territory of King Oeneus of Calydon  because Oeneus had offended Artemis by not  offering   proper   sacrifice.   Meleager,   the   son  of Oeneus, was sent to kill the boar. Heralds  were sent all over Greece summoning sport-  and adventure-loving heroes to aid in the task.  Castor and Polydeuces came from Sparta, and  Idas and Lynceus came from Messene. Theseus  of Athens, his friend Peirithous, and Jason and  220   Callisto

=== 페이지 238 ===
his cousin Admetus came. Peleus, the father of  Achilles, and Telamon, the father of Ajax, also  responded to the summons. From the royal  family of Arcadia came Ancaeus and Atalanta.  Atalanta was the only woman in the hunt. These  heroes and others were entertained for nine days  by King Oeneus before the hunt began. It was  his son Meleager who finally killed the wild boar  after it had been first wounded by Atalanta.  The   prize—the   boar’s   skin—became   the  object of a quarrel after Meleager had given it  to Atalanta. A battle ensued in which, according  to some accounts, Meleager was the victor. In a  later myth, Meleager died after the hunt because  of the anger of his mother, Althaea. When  Meleager was born, the two Fates predicted he  would be a brave warrior but that he would die  when a stick, in a fire burning at the time of  his birth, was consumed. Althaea, Meleager’s  mother, hid the stick, but when Meleager killed  her brothers in the battle over the boar’s skin,  she took the stick and had it burned. Meleager  then died agonizingly in the fighting when the  Curetes attacked the Calydonians after the boar  had been killed. After his death he was changed  into a guinea fowl by Artemis.  The myth is told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (books 8, 10), William Morris’s   Earthly Para -  dise,   and Swinburne’s poetic drama   Atalanta in  Calydon.  A late Roman sarcophagus in the Capitoline  Museum, Rome, portrays the hunt. Meleager  stands in the center of the piece thrusting his  spear into the boar. To his right is Atalanta with  her bow. Poussin based his painting on Ovid’s  account.  See also:   achilles; admetus; ajax; arcadia;  artemis; atalanta; castor and polydeuces;  meleageer; ovid; peleus; theseus  Calypso   (hider)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughter of Atlas and Pleione or of Oceanus  and Tethys; sister of Hyas, the Hyades, the  Hesperides, Maia, and the Pleiades. Calypso  received Odysseus on her island, entertained  him, became his mistress, and bore him two  children,   Nausinous   (cunning   sailor)   and  Nauisithous (in the service of the sea goddess).  Odysseus   remained   with   Calypso   for   seven  years. Calypso at last received the command of  Zeus to dismiss him. Hermes brought the mes -  sage to Calypso and found her in her grotto.  With much reluctance, Calypso obeyed the  command of Zeus. She supplied Odysseus with  means for constructing a raft, provisions, and a  favorable wind.  Fénelon, the French writer, in his romance  Telemachus,   which tells of the adventures of  Odysseus’s son, has Telemachus visit the island  of Calypso. As with his father, she offered  him immortality (it is believed she was origi -  nally a goddess connected with death), but  Calypso   22   Meleager, who killed the Calydonian Boar

=== 페이지 239 ===
the lad refused. Minerva (Fénelon uses the  Latin names of the Greek gods), in the shape  of Mentor, Telemachus’s friend, escaped with  Telemachus by leaping from a cliff into the  sea. They both reached a boat offshore. Lord  Byron, in his long poem   Childe Harold,   alludes  to this incident when he writes: “But not in  silence pass Calypso’s isles.” Goza is sometimes  identified as the isle of the goddess.  See also:   atlas; hesperides; maia; minerva;  odysseus; oceanus; telemachus; tethys  Camahueto   In the folklore of the Araucanian  Indians of Chile, a sea monster who wrecks  large boats.  Camazotz   (Camalotz)   In   Mayan   mythol -  ogy, vampire-bat god of the Quiché Maya of  Guatemala. He is often portrayed with large  teeth and claws and a sacrificial flint knife in  one hand and his victim in the other. He slew  Hanahpú when he and his brother came to  Hanahpú’s domain, as one of many tests.  See also:   hanahpú  camel   A   large   ruminant   found   in   desert  countries and used as a beast of burden. In  medieval Christianity the camel was a symbol  of temperance because it could go without  water for long periods. It was also a symbol of  humility because, as Christ carried the burden  of the world’s sins, the camel carried man’s  physical burdens. St. John the Baptist “was  clothed with camel’s hair, and with a girdle of  a skin about his loins.” (Mark 1:6) as a sign of  penitence. In artworks of the Christian Middle  Ages and the Renaissance the camel is shown in  paintings of Joseph and his brothers, Rebecca  at the well, the Exodus from Egypt, and the  Adoration of the Magi.  In Islam the Camel of Seleh is one of the  10   animals   admitted   into   heaven.   Another  of the 10 was Muhammad’s camel Al Adah,  who made the entire journey from Jerusalem  to Mecca in four bounds. Other animals in  heaven were Al Borak, Balaam’s ass, Tobit’s  dog, and the dog of the Seven Sleepers. The  camel also had its detractors. Aristotle wrote  that camels spend nearly the whole day copu -  222   Camahueto  Camel   (Konrad Gesner)

=== 페이지 240 ===
lating, and Leviticus (11:4) calls the camel an  unclean animal.  See also:   balaam; borak; john the baptist,  st.; joseph; rebecca; seven sleepers of ephe -  sus, the  Camelot   In Arthurian legend, the home of  King Arthur and his knights. It has been vari -  ously identified as Caerleon-upon-Usk in Wales,  Camelford   in   Cornwall,   and   by   Malory   in  Morte d’Arthur   as Winchester, England. Large  entrenchments   at   South   Cadbury   (Cadbury  Castle) are still called King Arthurs’s Palace by  local inhabitants. Lerner and Lowe’s Broadway  musical about King Arthur is titled   Camelot.  See also:   arthur  Camilla   (feminine   form   of   Camillus)   In  Roman mythology, a virgin queen of the Volsci  (Volscians) and a daughter of Metabus and  Casmilla; she fought against Aeneas. Camilla  was dedicated to the goddess Diana and fought  with one breast exposed to give greater free -  dom to her bow arm. Camilla was killed by  Aruns’s   spear   in   an   ambush,   according   to  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 7).  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the ; diana  Camillus   In Roman cult, the Latin name  for the boys and girls who served the priests  and   priestesses   during   the   performance   of  their religious functions. The children had to  be below the age of puberty with both parents  living. The name was used as a cognomen by  the Roman hero Marcus Furius Camillus, who  engineered the capture of Veii in 396   b.c.e.   and  saved Rome from the Gauls in 390.  See also:   camilla  Camillus, Marcus Furius   In Roman his -  tory   and   legend,   conqueror   of   the   Gauls.  Camillus cast them out of Rome in 387   b.c.e.  He was noted for his sense of justice. One leg -  end tells how he reprimanded a schoolteacher.  When the Romans were attacking Falerii, the  local schoolteacher brought the children in his  charge to Camillus and offered them as hos -  tages. Shocked at the schoolteacher’s treachery,  Camillus sent the children back but not before  he had the schoolmaster whipped in front of  them. Poussin’s   Camillus and the Schoolmaster of  Falerii   depicts the legend. Both Livy’s   History of  Rome   and Plutarch’s   Parallel Lives   have biogra -  phies of him with legendary material.  See also:   livy  Campus Martius   (field of Mars)   A plain  lying   to   the   north   of   Rome,   outside   the  Pomerium, between the Tiber, the Quirinal,  and the Capitoline Hills. The Campus Martius  was dedicated to Mars, the god of war. Roman  youths performed exercises in its field. It is the  site of Pompey’s Theater, constructed in 52  b.c.e. , the Theater of Marcellus, the Pantheon,  the   Stadium   of   Domitian   (now   the   Piazza  Navonna),   and   many   other   famous   monu -  ments, as well as the voting stalls where elec -  tions for major magistrates were held. Roman  generals who could not reenter the city (cross  the   Pomerium)   without   laying   down   their  command, or who held special commands or  appointments with military power, often resid -  ed in the Campus Martius until their command  expired. Caesar was assassinated in Pompey’s  Theater in the Campus Martius.  See also:   mars  Camulos   (Camulus)   (powerful)   In   Celtic  mythology, a war god worshipped in Colchester,  England, who possessed an invincible sword;  also   called   Camolundunum.   The   ancient  Romans   equated   him   with   Mars.   In   some  places he is depicted with a ram-horned head.  Some scholars believe he is the original for the  King Cole who figures in children’s nursery  rhymes.  Canace   (barking)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughter of Aeolus and Enarete; she commit -  ted incest with her brother Marcareus, had  a child, and then killed herself at her father’s  command. Marcareus also committed suicide.  Canace   223

=== 페이지 241 ===
In variant accounts Canace is the mother of  Hopleus, Nireus, Epopeus, Aloeüs, and Tripoas  by Poseidon. Canace is one of the heroines in  Ovid’s   Heroides   (11).  See also:   aeolus; ovid; poseidon  Cancer   (crab)   One of the 12 signs of the  Zodiac. Cancer is called the Crab. It appears  when the sun has reached its highest north -  ern limit and begins to go backward toward  the south. Like a crab, the return is sideways.  The dates generally are 21 June to 23 July. In  Greek mythology Hera sent Cancer against her  enemy Heracles when he fought the Hydra.  Cancer bit Heracles’ foot, but the hero killed  the animal. However, Hera rewarded the crab  by making it the constellation of Cancer.  See also:   hera; heracles; hydra; zodiac  Candlemas   Day   (Candlemass)   Christian  feast celebrated on 2 February, also called the  Feast of the Purification of the Virgin Mary, or  Presentation of Our Lord. Candlemas begins  four days after Christmas, initiating the 40-day  period of isolation that Hebrew law required for  mothers and their infants. Since Christ’s birthday  is given as 25 December, Mary and her newborn  son would be presented at the Temple for puri -  fication on 2 February. During the Middle Ages  candles that were to be used during the church  year were consecrated on this day, symbolizing  Jesus Christ, “the light of the World.” The feast  is still observed in Roman and Anglican churches.  The ceremony of the candles may stem from the  pagan Roman custom of carrying lighted torches  to honor Juno Februata. An old Scottish proverb  for the feast day of Candlemas went:  If Candlemass Day be fair and bright,  Winter will have another flight.  If Candlemass Day be shower and rain,  Winter is gone and will not come again.  In   German   tradition,   the   badger   peeps  out of his hole on Candlemas Day. If he finds  snow, he walks abroad, but if he sees the sun  shining he draws back into his hole. In secular  custom today, we have Groundhog Day on 2  February.  See also:   blaise, st.; brigit, st.; jesus christ;  virgin mary  Canens   (singer)   In   Roman   mythology,   a  nymph,   the   daughter   of   Janus   and   Venilia.  She pined away when her husband, Picus, was  lost. Picus was a handsome youth and Canens  a nymph who attracted trees and rocks by her  voice, soothed wild beasts, detained the birds,  and halted rivers in their courses. One day  Circe made sexual advances toward Picus. The  youth refused, and the angry Circe turned him  into a woodpecker. Canens searched for Picus  for six days and nights. At last, melting with  grief, she pined away and by degrees vanished  into the air. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 14)  tells the tragic tale of Canens and Picus.  See also:   janus; nymphs; ovid; picus  cante fable   (chante fable)   Cante fable   is prose  narrative interspersed with sung rhymed verses.  Several types of narratives might be presented  as   cante fables : anecdotes, ballads, fairy tales,  and even jokes. The mingling of verse is quite  old and is found in such well-known works  as the   Arabian Nights   and the   Panchantrantra.  Communication between humans and the ani -  mal world is often accomplished through songs  and rhymes. Giants and witches often speak  in rhyme, as do supernatural helpers of young  heroes and heroines. They are used to cre -  ate something of a magical effect: “Fee, fi, fo,  fum,” “Mirror, mirror on the wall,” or “My  mother she killed me, my father he ate me.”  See also:   arabian nights, the; panchant -  rantra, the  Capaneus   (charioteer)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, one of the Seven against Thebes; son of  Hipponous and Astynome, married to Evadne,  and father of Sthenelus. Capaneus boasted that  not even Zeus could stop him from entering  Thebes. The god, of course, sent a thunder -  224   Cancer

=== 페이지 242 ===
bolt and killed Capaneus. Some accounts say  Asclepius, the god of medicine, resurrected  Capaneus.   Other   accounts   say   he   was   the  inventor of the scaling ladder.  See also:   asclepius; zeus  Caphaurus   (Cephalion) (camphor)   In Greek  mythology,   a   Libyan   shepherd,   son   of  Amphithemis and Tritonis; brother of Nasamon;  he killed the Argonauts Canthus and Eribotes  for attempting to steal his sheep. He was in turn  killed by other Argonauts. Cape Capharus is a  rocky promontory in southeast Euboea, where  Nauplius lit beacons to lure returning Greek  ships to their doom on the rocks.  See also:   argonauts  Capitol   The   southern   summit   of   the  Capitoline Hill at Rome, separated from the  northern summit by a saddle. On the high -  est point of the southern tip was the temple  of Jupiter Optimus Maximus, begun by the  Tarquins but not finished until the first year  of the republic in 509   b.c.e.   In 83   b.c.e.   the  whole temple burned down to the vaults where  the   Sibylline   books   and   other   consecrated  objects   were   preserved.   A   new   temple   was  consecrated in 69   b.c.e.   A statue of Jupiter in  ivory and gold, on the model of the Olympian  Zeus of Apollonius, was substituted for the old  terra-cotta image of the god. One hundred  years later the temple again burned. Vespasian  restored it, but the new structure was destroyed  by fire in 80   c.e.   In 82   c.e.   a new temple was  erected by Domitian that survived until the  fifth century   c.e.   It was gradually destroyed  by the Christians and Barbarians during the  Middle Ages.  Capaneus   (William Blake)  Capitol   225

=== 페이지 243 ===
Capricorn   (goat’s   horn)   The   goat,   the  tenth sign of the Zodiac, which the sun enters  on 22 December. Capricorn’s form combines  the upper half of a goat with the lower half  of a fish. According to some ancient texts,  it represents Aegipan, son of Zeus and Aex  (Aega), a nymph, or of Boetis, a goat. In Greek  mythology Aegipan was immortalized by Zeus  for helping the god recover his stolen sinews,  which the evil Typhon had severed and hid -  den with the monster Delphyne. Aegipan also  taught the Greek gods to change their shapes  into   animal   forms   to   escape   from   Typhon.  Many Greek texts identify Aegipan as a form of  the goat god Pan. Other accounts say the goat  is Amalthea, who fed Zeus with her milk when  he was an infant.  See also:   pan; typhon; zodiac  Captain Kidd   (1645–1701)   In British and  American history and folklore, popular name of  William Kidd, privateer. Born in Scotland, Kidd  came to New York City, where he ran a thriv -  ing ship business. He worked for the British  government in their fight against French priva -  teers, but in 1697 he turned pirate himself. Two  months later he refused to attack a Dutch ship,  which nearly brought his crew to mutiny, and  in an angry exchange Kidd mortally wounded  his gunner, William Moore. Kidd returned to  Boston in the hope of being pardoned but was  sent to England, where he was tried for murder  and piracy, found guilty, and hanged.  After his death various ballads were circu -  lated, such as “Dialogue Between the Ghost of  Capt. Kidd and the Kidnaper.” Legend grew  up around his life and about where he had hid -  den his vast treasure, inspiring various hoaxes  about the burial site. According to legend, his  spirit hovers over his treasure. Captain Kidd’s  treasure   appears   in   Edgar   Allan   Poe’s   tale  “The Gold Bug,” set on Sullivan’s Island near  Charleston, South Carolina. Poe’s tale influ -  enced Robert Louis Stevenson’s novel   Trea -  sure Island.   Hollywood’s   Captain Kidd,   starring  Charles Laughton, deals with the legend.  Capys   (breath)   In   Greek   and   Roman  mythology, son of Assaracus and Hieromneme;  father of Anchises and Laocoön by his cousin  Themiste. Capys is also the name of a Trojan  hero who warned against bringing in the wood -  en horse. He advised casting it into the sea, but  his advice was not heeded. When Troy fell,  Capys fled with Aeneas. He founded Capua in  Italy with Aeneas after the Trojan War.  See also:   aeneas; laocoön  Caractacus   (Caradoc)   (first century   c.e. )   In  British history and legend, son of Cymbeline.  Caractacus   was   a   king   who   fought   against  Rome   for   nine   years   but   was   betrayed   by  Carthismandu, queen of the Brigantes, and  captured by the Romans. Edward Elgar’s can -  tata   Caractacus   deals with the legend.  See also:   cymbeline  Carausius   (third century)   In British history  and legend, a hero who fought successfully  against Rome, became ruler of Britain with  full Roman approval, and later was murdered.  Mac-Pherson’s   Ossianic   poem   “Caros,”   the  name he gives Carausius, tells the legend.  See also:   ossian  Cardea   (hinge)   In Roman mythology, tute -  lary   virgin   goddess   of   thresholds   and   door  pivots. Cardea warded off evil spirits, especially  the Strigoe, who were believed to suck the  blood of children by night.  See also:   vampire  Cardiff   Giant   “America’s   Greatest   Hoax”  was a scheme by George Hull, a cigarmaker  from Binghamton, New York. Hull’s hoax was  based on the biblical passage, “There were  giants in the earth in those days” (Genesis 6:4).  In 1868 Hull journeyed to Ft. Dodge, Iowa,  and ordered a five-ton block of gypsum in  order to create a “piece of patriotic statuary.”  The massive block was delivered to a stone -  cutter named Edward Burghardt in Chicago.  Burghardt and his assistants carved the figure,  226   Capricorn

=== 페이지 244 ===
which is 10 feet tall and weighs 3,000 pounds.  Hull then crated the giant and shipped him to  Union, near Binghamton, and later to Cardiff,  a village just south of Syracuse. Hull returned,  and Stub Newell, his brother-in-law, dug a pit  in a marshy area. The crate was opened, the  giant was placed in the grave, and the site was  then planted in clover.  On   Saturday,   16   October   1869,   Newell  hired two workmen to dig a well. He showed  them where to dig. One of the workers struck  the giant’s foot three feet down. Word of a  petrified man spread quickly. A tent was placed  over   the   pit,   and   a   50-cent   admission   was  charged to view the giant. Newell took in a  fortune. Scientific experts came to see the giant  and offered theories of his origin. Dr. John F.  Boynton, scientific lecturer, declared that no  evidence existed for the petrification of flesh.  Instead, he suggested that the giant was a statue  created by a Jesuit priest during the 17th cen -  tury to impress local Indian tribes. State geolo -  gist James Hall was likewise convinced that the  giant was an ancient statue. A third group said  it was of recent origin.  Soon the hoax began to unravel. Reporters  looked into Newell’s and Hull’s activities, and  farmers remembered seeing a large crate travel  toward Cardiff a year earlier. A Yale paleon -  tologist, Othniel C. March, pointed out fresh  tool marks and declared the giant a “decided  humbug of recent origin.” Hull was forced  to admit the fabrication to the press, but the  giant continued to be of interest to a curious  public. A national tour was booked with P.T.  Barnum, who tried to buy the giant for $60,000  but failed and had his own carved from wood.  Interest in the giant waned, but he was brought  out of storage and exhibited at the 1901 Pan-  American Exposition in Buffalo.  Between 1913 and the mid-1930s, the giant  was exhibited in Syracuse, New York, and in  Ft. Dodge, Iowa, where the original stone was  quarried. In 1947 the giant was sold to the  Farmers’ Museum in Cooperstown, New York.  He is still on display at the museum in a tent  that duplicates the original one erected after  his discovery at Stub Newell’s farm.  See also:   barnum, phineas taylor  Carlos, Don   (1545–1568)   In Spanish history  and legend, son of Philip II of Spain by his wife,  Maria of Portugal. The historical picture of Don  Carlos varies widely from the legendary one.  According to most historical accounts, he plot -  ted the death of his father, Philip II, was arrested,  and died in prison. He is described in numerous  contemporary accounts as brutal, intolerable,  devilish, ill-tempered, vicious, and vindictive.  One source tells how he roasted a rabbit alive;  in another he forced a shoemaker to eat a pair  of shoes. But the legend says Don Carlos was  a handsome prince (he was actually short and  ugly), who died in the cause of freedom, fighting  against the dictatorship of his father, Philip II.  To add to his charm he was also supposed to be  in love with his father’s intended wife, Elisabeth  of Valois. The most famous play treating the  legend is Schiller’s   Don Carlos,   which was used as  the basis for Verdi’s opera   Don Carlo.  Carme   In Greek mythology, a nymph, daugh -  ter of Eubulus and the mother of Britomartis  by Zeus. Carme was an attendant of the virgin  goddess Artemis and was nursemaid to Scylla.  See also:   artemis; britomartis; nymphs;  scylla and charybdis; zeus  Carmenta   (singer,   spellbinder)   In   Roman  mythology,   one   of   the   Camenae,   goddesses  and water deities identified with the Muses.  Carmenta was an ancient Italian goddess of  prophecy who protected women in childbirth.  In Rome she had a priest attached to her cult  and a shrine near one of the gates of Rome,  the Porta Carmentalis, near the capitol. On  this spot Roman women celebrated the fes -  tival of Carmentalia in her honor. She was  worshipped   along   with   her   sisters,   Porrima  (or   Antevorta)   and   Postvorta.   According   to  Roman   myth,   Carmenta   was   the   prophetic  mother, by Mercury, of the Arcadian stranger  Carmenta   22 

=== 페이지 245 ===
Evander. Other accounts say she was Evander’s  wife. Carmenta was the Roman counterpart  of the Greek Themis and also was known as  Nicostrata.  See also:   evander; mercury; themis  Carna   (flesh)   In   Roman   mythology,   god -  dess of hearts and other body organs. She had  a shrine on the Caelian Hill in Rome. Her  festival, at which the worshippers ate beans  and bacon and made offerings of them to the  goddess, was held on 1 June.  carnation   A   large   white,   pink,   yellow,   or  red flower with fringed petals; a symbol of  Mother’s Day, celebrated in the United States  on the second Sunday in May. In Christian leg -  end the carnation is associated with the Virgin  Mary; when she witnessed her son carrying the  cross, she shed tears that turned into carna -  tions when they touched the ground. Indians  in Mexico call the carnation the “flower of the  dead” and mass the flowers around corpses in  preparation for burial. In Korean legend a clus -  ter of three carnations is placed on the hair; if  the top flower withers first, the last years of life  with be difficult; if the second, one will suffer  in youth. In the Victorian language of flowers  the carnation symbolized admiration.  See also:   virgin mary  Carpo   (fruit)   In Greek mythology, goddess  of autumn, daughter of Zeus and Themis, and  one of the Horae, who were goddesses of the  seasons.  See also:   horae; themis; zeus  Cartwright, Peter   (1785–1872)   In U.S.  history and folklore, a Methodist circuit rider  in the South and Middle West who preached  against drunkenness and slavery.  Cartwright thought he would demonstrate  the danger of strong drink. He placed a worm in  a glass of wine. It wriggled. He transferred it to a  glass of whiskey. It curled up and died. “There,”  Cartwright said. “What does that tell you?”  A man replied, “It shows that if you drink  whiskey you won’t have worms.”  One legend says Cartwright held a man under  water for advocating slavery, saying he would let  him go free if the man recited the Lord’s Prayer  every morning and night and attended every  sermon delivered anywhere within five miles.  Cartwright also made the man promise to give  free rides on his ferry to Methodist ministers. In  his   Autobiography   he recounts many of his adven -  tures, including a story that he had fought the  legendary boatman Mike Fink, which place him  more in the realm of legend than history.  See also:   mike fink  Carya   (nut tree)   In Greek mythology, a girl  loved by the god Dionysus. After her death  she was turned into a walnut tree, and a city  in   Laconia   was   named   after   her.   Artemis,  who reported the death of Carya, was called  Caryatis (of the walnut tree).  See also:   artemis; dionysus  Caryatis   (of   the   walnut   tree)   In   Greek  mythology, Carya, a girl loved by Artemis who  died and was transformed into a walnut tree.  Artemis repented Carya’s death and was given  the epithet Caryatis. Caryatids, female-form  statues used for support, are said to be based  on Caryatis. In a variant myth Caria, a Greek  state,   supported   the   Persians   in   their   war  against the Greeks. When the Persians were  defeated, the Greeks killed off all the Carian  men and enslaved the women. Greek builders’  use of statues of the women as building sup -  ports was symbolic punishment. Examples of  caryatids are found in the ruins of Cnidos and  Siphnos at Delphi. The   salle des Caryatides,   a  16th-century room in the Louvre, Paris, also  uses the motif.  See also:   artemis; carya; delphi  Casey at the Bat   American literary ballad,  published in 1888 by Ernest Lawrence Thayer,  under his nickname “Phin” in the   San Francisco  Examiner.   The ballad tells how the mighty  22    Carna

=== 페이지 246 ===
Casey of the Mudville baseball team strikes out  and loses the game. William Schuman’s opera  The Mighty Casey   deals with the hero.  Casey Jones   In American history and leg -  end, the popular name of John Luther Jones  (1864–1900), a train engineer believed to be  responsible for one of the worst train wrecks  in history. The ballad “Casey Jones” was writ -  ten by Wallace Saunders, an African-American  engine wiper who had been a close friend of the  famous engineer, published in 1909. It opens:  Come all you rounders for I want you to  hear  The story told of a brave engineer;  Casey Jones was the rounder’s name  On a heavy six-eight wheeler he rode to  fame.  The ballad then goes on in detail, telling  how Casey stayed on the train, even though  warned that a wreck was about to take place.  In 1948, a “Mrs. Casey Jones” was interviewed  about her late husband. She said: “He was  a   lovable   lad—6   feet   4½   inches   in   height,  dark-haired and grayeyed. Always he was in  good humor and his Irish heart was as big  as his body. All the railroaders were fond of  Casey.   .   .   .” Aside from the ballad, Casey Jones  appears in a play by Robert Ardrey.  Casilda, St.   (11th century)   In Christian leg -  end, Spanish saint of Moorish descent invoked  against   bad   luck,   hemorrhage,   and   sterility.  Daughter   of   a   Moorish   king,   she   secretly  sympathized with Christian captives. She took  bread to the starving prisoners, which then  turned to roses at the approach of the guards.  Caryatids of the Porch of Maidens, Erechtheion, Acropolis, Athens  Casilda, St.   22 

=== 페이지 247 ===
She is portrayed by Francisco de Zurbarán as  an elegant Spanish woman holding roses.  Casimir of Poland, St.   (proclamation of  peace)   (Died   1483)   In   Christian   legend,  prince often portrayed in ecstasy with a lily  and crown nearby; a patron saint of Poland and  Lithuania. Feast, 4 March.  Cassandra   (she   who   entangles   men)   In  Greek mythology, prophetess, daughter of King  Priam and Queen Hecuba; sister of Aesacus,  Creusa, Hector, Helenus, Paris, Polyxena, and  Troilus, among others. Cassandra is sometimes  called Alexandra.  According to some ancient accounts, Cas -  sandra   and   Helenus,   her   twin,   as   children  fell asleep in a temple of Apollo while their  parents were taking part in the sacred rites.  Sacred serpents, kept in the temple, licked the  ears of the children while they were asleep.  When Hecuba saw this, she screamed, and the  serpents fled. However, since the serpent was  sacred to Apollo, the children were given the  gift of prophecy from the archer god.  In a variant account Apollo fell in love with  Cassandra. He promised her the gift of proph -  ecy if she returned his love. Cassandra, who was  the most beautiful of all King Priam’s daughters,  agreed. However, when it came time for her  to return Apollo’s love, she refused. In anger  Apollo, who could not take back his gift, cursed  Cassandra: she would tell the future correctly,  but no one would ever believe what she said.  Cassandra warned the Trojans about the  wooden   horse   but   was   silenced.   When   the  Greeks took the city, Cassandra was given as a  prize to Agamemnon. She warned him that he  would be killed by his wife, but this prophecy,  like all her prophecies, was ignored. Both Cas -  sandra and Agamemnon as well as their sons  were killed by Clytemnestra and her lover.  Cassandra appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (books  6, 13) and   Odyssey   (book 4); she is a character in  Vergil’s   Aeneid,   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses,   Chaucer’s  narrative poem   Troilus and Crisyde,   Byron’s   Don  Juan,   Shakespeare’s play   Troilus and Cressida,  Meredith’s poem “Cassandra,” Dante Gabriel  Rossetti’s poem “Cassandra,” Schiller’s poem  “Kassandra,” Tennyson’s   Oenone,   and Robinson  Jeffers’s “Cassandra.”  See also:   aeneid, the;   aesacus; agamem -  non;   apollo;   hector;   hecuba;   iliad,   the;  paris; polyxena; priam  Cassiopea   (Cassipea,   Cassiope,   Cassiopeia)  (cassia   juice)   In   Greek   mythology,   the  wife of Cepheus, king of Ethiopia; mother  of   Andromeda   and   of   Atymnius   by   Zeus.  Cassiopea boasted that she and her daughter  were more beautiful than the Nereids. This  angered the sea god Poseidon, who sent a  monster to devastate the land. To appease the  god an oracle had demanded that Andromeda  be placed on a rock in the sea, exposed to the  monster. After being tied to the rock by her  father, the girl was freed by the hero Perseus,  whom she then agreed to marry. Cassiopea,  however,   objected   to   Andromeda   marrying  Perseus and broke in on the wedding fes -  tivities. Perseus then turned Cassiopea and  Phineus (whom Cassiopea wanted Andromeda  to marry) into stone by showing them the  head of Medusa. For further revenge Poseidon  placed Cassiopea in the heavens as a constel -  lation   where   at   certain   times   she   appears  to be hanging upside down. Cassiopea is a  northern   constellation   containing   13   stars.  Five of the brightest resemble a chair and have  been given the name Cassiopea’s Chair. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 4) tells the myth.  See also:   andromeda; nereids; ovid; per -  seus; poseidon  Castalia   In   Greek   mythology,   daughter   of  the river god Achelous and sister of Callirrhoë  and Peirene. Castalia was chased by Apollo  and turned into a spring at Mount Parnassus at  Delphi. The spring, called Castalia, then became  sacred to Apollo and the Muses. Castalides was  an epithet applied to the Muses because of their  connection with the sacred spring.  See also:   achelous; apollo; callirrhoë;  delphi  230   Casimir of Poland, St.

=== 페이지 248 ===
Castor and Polydeuces   (beaver and much  sweet wine)   In Greek mythology, twin broth -  ers, sons of Leda and Tyndareus; often called  Dioscuri (sons of Zeus); brothers of Phoebe,  Philonoe,   Timanda,   and   Clytemnestra;   half  brothers of Helen.  The myths of Castor and Polydeuces (called  Pollux in Latin) vary. In Homer, they are said  to be the sons of Leda and King Tyndareos and  are called Tyndaridae (sons of Tyndareos). They  died sometime between the rape of Helen and  the Trojan War and were buried in Lacedae -  mon. But even in death they were said to live  because Zeus, the king of the gods, honored  them. Thus, it was believed that they lived and  died on alternate days—the day Castor was on  earth, Pollydeuces was in the underworld. Their  positions were reversed the following day.  In a later variant myth only Polydeuces is  said to be a son of Zeus. Polydeuces was born  after Zeus, disguised as a swan, raped Leda.  In the later account they freed their sister  Helen, whom Theseus had abducted. They  also took part in the Argonauts’ search for the  Golden Fleece. Castor, in the later myth, died  in a contest with Idas and Lynceus, the sons of  their paternal uncle Aphareus. The fight arose  in a quarrel over some cattle that Castor and  Polydeuces had carried off. In a variant myth,  the quarrel was about the rape by Castor and  Polydeuces of two daughters of another uncle,  Leucippus, who were betrothed to the sons of  Aphareus. When Castor died, Polydeuces, the  immortal one of the pair, prayed to Zeus to  let him die also. Zeus permitted Polydeuces to  spend one day among the gods, the other in the  underworld with his beloved brother.  According to another variant myth, Zeus  rewarded the two for their brotherly love by  placing them in the heavens as the constella -  tion Gemini (the twins). They never appear  together; when one rises, the other sets. The  sun enters the constellation 21 May. The pair  was worshipped at Sparta and Olympia, along  with Heracles and other heroes. At Athens they  were honored as gods under the title Anakes  (lords or protectors). They were also regarded  as gods of the sea. When sailors saw a flame at  the masthead of a vessel, they believed Castor  and Polydeuces were present. White lambs  were sacrificed to the two.  Roman cult also honored Castor and Poly -  deuces. A temple was built in their honor in the  Roman Forum in 484   b.c.e.   in honor of their  help during the battle of Lake Regillus 12 years  earlier. Macaulay’s   Lays of Ancient Rome   tells of  the battle. On 15 July Roman   equites   (cavalry  divisions) passed in solemn review in honor of  the battle. Castor’s and Pollux’s images were  found on the oldest Roman coins. They were  also regarded as patrons of horses, their horses  being Xanthus (Yellow) and Cyllarus.  They   are   cited   in   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  6), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6), Euripides’  Helen,   the   Homeric   Hymns,   and   Spenser’s  “Prothalamion.” In the New Testament (Acts  28:11) Saint Paul sails from Malta in a ship  “whose sign was Castor and Pollux.” They are  the subject of Rameau’s opera   Castor et Pollux.  See also:   aeneid, the;   argonauts; dioscuri;  golden fleece; helen of troy; heracles;  leda; leucippus; swan; xanthus; zeus  Caswallawn   (Cassibellawn,   Cassivelaonus)  (war king)   In Celtic mythology, a war god  who conquers Britain, righting the wrongs of  Brenwen; son of Beli; brother of Penardon,  Llevelys, Lludd, Nynnyaw, and Peiban. He was  noted for his cloak, which made him invisible.  Caswallawn reigned when Julius Caesar first  invaded Britain.  See also:   arianrhod; brenwen; lludd  cat   A domesticated carnivore, associated in  many mythologies with female goddesses and  witches.   In   ancient   Egypt   the   people   were  forbidden on pain of death to harm a cat.  When a cat died, the bereaved family would  shave off their eyebrows as a mark of mourn -  ing. The cat was then mummified, and a grand  funeral procession took place. With weeping  and lamentation the cat, along with its favorite  toys and saucers of food, was placed in a tomb.  This ceremony was the rule, not the exception.  cat   23 

=== 페이지 249 ===
Many cats were brought to Europe by Roman  soldiers returning from Egypt, even though  Julius Caesar hated the animal intensely. But  his dislike in no way affected the beliefs of the  people. Bast, the Egyptian goddess, as well as  the Greek goddesses Demeter and Artemis,  were identified with the cat.  The cat population of Europe increased dur -  ing the Christian Middle Ages when Crusaders  returned with them from their pillage of the  Holy Land. During the 15th century there was  a resurgence of the cult of the Norse goddess  Freya, whose chariot was drawn by black cats.  In Christian Europe the church made an effort  to suppress witchcraft, and the cat came to be  identified with witches. Many women were  killed along with their cats. Cats, as demons,  were burned, usually in a rite on Shrove Tues -  day, the day before Ash Wednesday.  The ancient Jews disliked cats. Only one  mention of a cat is given in the Epistle of Jer -  emy (v.22), part of the Old Testament Apocry -  pha but not included in the Jewish Scriptures  today. The Arabs, along with the Jews, disliked  cats, but Muhammed was said to have had a cat  named Muezza. If a cat enters a mosque, it is  considered a sign of good fortune even today.  In Buddhist folklore the cat is disliked. One  tale tells that when the Buddha was sick a rat  was sent to obtain medicine to cure him, but a  cat captured the rat and ate him. In Thailand  and Burma the soul of a person who at death  has attained a degree of spiritual enlightenment  enters the body of a cat. The soul is believed to  stay with the cat until the animal dies, and then  the soul proceeds to heaven. In an ancient Thai  burial custom, when a member of the royal  family died, a live cat was buried along with  the body. Small holes were strategically placed  in the burial site so the cat could eventually get  out. When the cat escaped, the temple priests  declared that the soul of the dead person had  passed into the cat. There are numerous motifs  associated with cats in the   Motif Index of Folk  Literature.  See also:   artemis; ash wednesday; bast;  buddha, the; demeter; freya;  Catequil   (Choke   Illa)   In   Inca   mythology,  thunder and lightning god, attendant on Inti,  the sun, and Mama Quilla, the moon, and por -  trayed as carrying a sling and a mace. Children  were sacrificed to Catequil.  See also:   inti; mama quilla  Caterpillar and the Crow, The   Once,  in   the   kingdom   of   Cambodia,   a   caterpillar  was eating a leaf when a crow decided that he  would be a good meal. He flew down but was  dumbfounded when the caterpillar agreed to be  eaten if the crow could solve four riddles. The  riddles concerned the sweetest, the bitterest,  the rottenest, and the best odor of anything in  the world. The crow thought for a while and  gave his answers: The sweetest would be sugar  and   honey;   the   bitterest   would   be   vinegar,  lemons, and the pods of the tamarind tree; the  most rotten would be manure and the stench  Cat   (Konrad Gesner)  232   Catequil

=== 페이지 250 ===
of a corpse; and, finally, the best odor would be  jasmine and the flowers of the ylang-ylang on  the cananga tree. Convinced that he had solved  the riddles, the crow prepared to eat the cater -  pillar, but the latter had other answers to the  four riddles. The sweetest thing in the world  would be loving words; the bitterest would be  wounding, hurtful, and malicious words; the  rottenest would be an evil reputation and a bad  name among men; and the best odor in the  world would be a good name among men and a  reputation for honesty and integrity. The cat -  erpillar thus escaped being eaten by the crow.  See also:   crow  Catherine of Alexandria, St.   (pure, clean)  (third   century)   In   Christian   legend,   patron  saint of theologians, philosophers, saddlers, spin -  sters, students, and rope-makers. Invoked against  diseases of the tongue. Feast, 25 November.  The life of St. Catherine of Alexandria is  found in a collection of saints’ lives written in  the 13th century by Jacobus de Voragine. Cath -  erine was the daughter of Costis, a brother of  Emperor Constantine the Great, and of Sabi -  nella, daughter of the king of Egypt. At 15 Cath -  erine was conversant with the works of Plato  and was considered wiser than the Seven Wisest  Men of her day. Her father died at this time, and  she was made queen. Nevertheless, she contin -  ued to study, even though her people objected.  Finally, she refused to marry until a prince pos -  sessing all of the virtues should woo her.  A vision then appeared to an old hermit in  the desert near Alexandria in which the Virgin  Mary told him to go to Catherine and tell her  that the Savior of the world would come to  be her bridegroom. That same night Christ  appeared to Catherine and placed a wedding  ring on her finger.  While Catherine was busy with her spiritual  life, Maxentius came to the throne and started a  persecution of Christians. Catherine argued so  forcibly with him that he called together 50 of  the most learned philosophers, promising them  great rewards if they could refute her argu -  ments. One by one they renounced their belief  and accepted Christianity. Maxentius had them  all burned to death, but he saved Catherine, who  was beautiful, for himself. She, however, could  not be moved. When she was locked in prison,  her steadfastness so impressed the empress and  a minion of the emperor that they both became  Christians. The emperor then ordered Cath -  erine bound on the sharp points of four revolv -  ing wheels, which when turned would tear her  to pieces. The saint went gladly to her death,  but an angel came and broke the wheels, the  fragments of which killed many of the onlook -  ers. Catherine was then carried outside the city,  tortured, and finally beheaded. Angels came and  carried her body to the top of Mount Sinai.  In medieval Christian art St. Catherine has  proved an almost inexhaustible subject. She is  usually shown as a young, beautiful girl with a  palm, book, or sword in her hand. Her most  distinguishing attribute is her spiked wheel,  often shown broken. In pictures of the Mystical  Marriage of St. Catherine, Christ is portrayed  as a child in the lap of his mother, the Virgin.  This convention arose from the reluctance of  medieval Christians to portray an adult Christ  placing the wedding band on the finger of the  female saint. The term   Catherine wheel   is now  used for a kind of firework in the shape of a  wheel, driven around by the explosions, and for  a rose-wheel-shaped window in a cathedral.  See also:   catherine of siena, st.;   golden  legend, the ; virgin mary  Catherine   of   Siena,   St.   (pure,   clean)  (1347–1380)   In   Christian   legend,   mystical  author, patron saint of Italy. Feast, 30 April.  Catherine was the youngest child of a rich  dyer of Siena. At an early age she displayed an  intense religious sensibility, often causing her  to go into a trancelike state. Her family was  displeased with her and attempted to have her  married off, but the girl had taken a vow of vir -  ginity. In her teens she sought admission to the  Daughters of Penance of St. Dominic’s Order  of Preachers. Since she did not have to live  in a convent, she chose a room in her father’s  house, where she stayed for three years suffer -  Catherine of Siena, St.   233

=== 페이지 251 ===
234   Catherine of Siena, St.  The Mystic Marriage of St. Catherine of Siena   (John Baptist Jackson, after Paolo Veronese)

=== 페이지 252 ===
ing from great temptation. Finally, she had a  vision of Christ, who set a ring on her finger  and married her.  “Behold,” he said to her, “I hereby espouse  thee to myself in faith, which shall adorn thee  from this time forward evermore .   .   . until .   .   .  thou shalt celebrate with me in heaven the  eternal wedding feast.”  Catherine left her room and entered the  world of political and religious intrigue, fight -  ing to force the pope into leaving his residence  at Avignon and returning to Rome. In 1375,  according to legend, she received the stigmata,  the wounds of Christ. They did not show on  her body, however, until after her death. She  died in Rome and was buried in the Minerva  Church. Her head was removed and carried to  Siena, where it is venerated as a sacred relic.  Among her writings, the   Dialogue,   dedicated  in 1378, is considered a masterpiece of mysti -  cal writing, whereas her letters display another  side to her complex personality.  In medieval Christian art St. Catherine of  Siena is portrayed in the habit of her order, with  the stigmata, holding a lily or crown of thorns.  See also:   catherine of alexandria, st.  Cat Maiden, The   Aesopic fable found in  various collections throughout the world.  A beautiful cat fell in love with a young  man. Naturally, the young man did not return  the cat’s affections, so she prayed to Venus, the  goddess of love and beauty, for help. The god -  dess, taking compassion on her plight, changed  her into a fair damsel.  No sooner had the young man set eyes on  the maiden than he became enamored of her  beauty and in due time led her home as his  bride. One evening a short time later, as the  young couple were sitting in their chamber,  the notion came to Venus to discover whether  in changing the cat’s form she had also changed  her nature. So she set down a mouse before  the beautiful damsel. The girl, reverting com -  pletely to her former character, started from  her seat and pounced on the mouse as if she  would eat it on the spot, while her husband  watched her in dismay.  The goddess, provoked by such clear evi -  dence   that   the   girl   had   revealed   her   true  nature, turned her into a cat again.  Moral:   What is bred in the bone will never be  absent in the flesh.  A similar fable is told in the great Indian  collection   The Panchatantra.   A Brahmin saves a  mouse and turns it into a girl, whom he deter -  mines to marry to the most powerful being  in the world. The mouse maiden objects to  the sun as a husband, as being too hot; to the  clouds, which can obscure the sun, as being too  cold; to the wind, which can drive the clouds,  as too unsteady; to the mountain, which can  withstand the wind, as inferior to mice, which  can bore into its entrails. So the Brahmin goes  with her to the mouse king. The mouse maiden  says: “Papa, make me into a mouse, and give  me to him as a wife.”  See also:   aesopic fables; venus;   panchat -  antra  Cato   the   Younger,   Marcus   Porcius  (95–46   b.c.e. )   In Roman history and legend,  great-grandson of Cato the Elder and sup -  porter of Pompey. Cato committed suicide at  Utica rather than consent to live under a tyrant  when he learned Caesar had defeated Pompey.  Lucan’s epic   Pharsalia   pictures him as a hero.  Dante’s   Divine Comedy   makes Cato guardian  of the approach to Mount Purgatory because  of Cato’s devotion to liberty. One of Plutarch’s  Parallel Lives   and Joseph Addison’s tragedy   Cato  deal with the Roman hero.  Catreus   (pheasant)   In Greek mythology, son  of King Minos of Crete and Pasiphae; brother  of Acacallis, Androgeus, Ariadne, Deucalion,  Euryale,   Glaucas,   Lycastrus,   Phaedra,   and  Xenodice.   Catreus   was   the   father   of   three  daughters, Aerope (the mother of Agamemnon  and   Menelaus),   Clymene,   and   Apemosyne.  Catreus had one son, Althaemenes, who, an  oracle predicted, would kill his father. Many  Catreus   235

=== 페이지 253 ===
years later when Catreus went to Rhodes to visit  him, Althaemenes mistook him for a pirate and  killed him.  See also:   agamemnon; androgeus; ariadne;  deucalion and pyrrha; menelaus; phaedra  Cattle of the Sun   In Greek mythology, cat -  tle living on the island of Thrinacia that were  sacred to Apollo. Odysseus warned his men not  to eat the cattle, but they paid no attention. As  a result, Apollo sank their ship, and all of the  men drowned except Odysseus. The episode is  in Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 12).  See also:   apollo; odysseus;   odyssey, the  Caucasus   Mountain range where the Greek  god Zeus chained Prometheus as a punishment.  Each day Prometheus’s liver was devoured by  an eagle or a vulture. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  4) says that Mount Caucasus burned when  Phaethon’s chariot came too close to earth.  See   also:   aeneid,   the;   phaeton;   pro -  metheus; zeus  Caunus and Biblis   In Greek and Roman  mythology,   brother   and   sister,   children   of  Miletus and Cyanee. Biblis fell in love with  her brother and wrote him a letter telling of  her sexual passion. Caunus fled in horror to  Caria. Biblis followed him, but eventually she  wearied of the chase, dissolved in her tears, and  changed into a fountain. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 9) tells the tale.  See also:   ovid  Cavall   In Arthurian legend, the dog of King  Arthur. In Tennyson’s poem “Enid,” part of  Idylls of the King,   he is described as “King  Arthur’s hound of deepest mouth.”  Cecilia,   St.   (blind)   (third   century)   In  Christian legend, patron saint of the blind,  music, and musicians. Feast, 22 November.  One of the most popular saints in Christianity.  In   The Canterbury Tales   Chaucer has the  Second Nun narrate the life of the saint. The  poet based his telling on   The Golden Legend,   a  collection of saints’ lives written in the 13th  century by Jacobus de Voragine.  Cecilia was born blind of noble Roman  parents   during   the   reign   of   the   emperor  Severus. Both parents were Christian, and the  girl was brought up in that faith. She always  carried a copy of the Gospels concealed in her  robe, and she pledged herself to Christ and  chastity. She was noted for her gift of music.  She composed and sang hymns so sweetly  that angels came down from heaven to listen  to her. Because the instruments employed in  secular music were insufficient for the music  of her soul, she invented the organ, according  to legend.  Her parents wanted her to marry a young  Roman noble, Valerian, when she was about  16 years old. She persuaded the young man to  respect her vows of chastity and even converted  him to Christianity. The young man went to  St. Urban in the catacombs and was baptized  by him. When he returned, he found Cecilia  with an angel, who crowned them both with  roses from Paradise. Valerian, in response to  the angel’s offer to grant any request of him,  asked that his brother Tiburtius might also be  converted to Christ. Soon after Tiburtius came  in and noticed the scent of roses, though he  could not see them. When he was converted  by the words of Cecilia, he, too, saw the roses.  The two men and Cecilia then went about  doing good among the poor and sick. This  came to the notice of the authorities, who had  the two men arrested and executed for being  Christians.   Cecilia   buried   their   bodies   and  was also arrested. Thrown into a boiling bath,  she emerged alive. She was then given three  wounds in the neck and breast and was left for  dead. After three days she died.  When the Academy of Music was founded  at Rome in 1584 Cecilia was adopted as the  patroness   of   church   music.   Ironically,   the  patronage arises from a medieval misunder -  standing that associated her with the invention  of the organ. Actually, the earliest known organ  236   Cattle of the Sun

=== 페이지 254 ===
was the   hydraulos,   built by the ancient Greeks  about 250   b.c.e.   Both John Dryden and Alex -  ander Pope wrote odes in honor of St. Cecilia.  Dryden’s work,   Ode for St. Cecilia’s Day,   was set  to music by Handel in 1739. Liszt composed  a legend for chorus and orchestra,   Die heilige  Cäcilia.   On St. Cecilia’s Day the Worshipful  Company of Musicians meet and go in pro -  cession to St. Paul’s Cathedral in London. In  Christian art St. Cecilia is portrayed with a  palm; sometimes she is crowned with roses.  She is easily distinguished from other virgin  martyr saints by her organ or other musical  instrument or roll of music.  See also:   chaucer;   golden legend, the  Cecrops   (face with a tail)   In Greek mytholo -  gy, a culture hero, son of Gaea; married Agraulos;  father of Erisichthon, Herse, and Pandrosus.  Cecrops was half man, half serpent with the torso  of a man and the lower body of a serpent.  According to some accounts, Cecrops was  the first king of Attica, which was called Cecro -  pia in his honor. He built temples, established  the worship of the gods, abolished human sac -  rifice, and introduced the art of writing.  When   Poseidon   and   Athena   were   con -  tending for possession of the land, Poseidon  struck   the   rock   of   the   Acropolis   with   his  trident, and water (or, according to a variant  myth, a horse) sprang forth. Athena, however,  planted the first olive tree. Cecrops, who had  to decide which god would have the land, con -  ferred the honor on Athena because the olive  branch was a sign of peace, whereas the horse  was a symbol of war. Pandrosos (all dewy), his  daughter, was the first priestess of Athena and  had a shrine of her own, the Pandroseum, in  the temple of Erechtheus on the Acropolis.  She was invoked in time of drought. In her  temple stood the sacred olive tree that Athena  had created.  Cecropia was the original name for Athens,  in honor of Cecrops. The word was used for  Attica, and Athenians were called Cecropidae  (descendants of Cecrops).  See also:   athena; gaea; poseidon  Cedalion   (he who takes charge of sailors)   In  Greek mythology, a man sent by Hephaestus to  carry the blind Orion from Lemnos to the sun,  where Apollo restored Orion’s sight.  See also:   apollo; orion  cedar   A fragrant evergreen tree; in world  mythology and folklore, often a symbol of  fidelity, manly strength, and fatherhood. In  Near Eastern mythology the hero king was  often represented by the cedar. In Assyria the  cedar was under the protection of the god Ea,  who personally watched over the fortunes of  the sacred king. In Ezekiel (31) the cedar is  used in a messianic allegory and represents  strength   and   greatness.   In   Christian   writ -  ing the cedar is often used as a symbol for  Christ.  See also:   ea; ezekiel  cedar   23   Cecrops

=== 페이지 255 ===
Ceiuci   In the mythology of the Tupi Indians  of Brazil, a cannibalistic witch.  One legend recounted by José Viera Couto  de Magalhaes in his   O Selvagen   (1874), tells  how Ceiuci caught a young man to eat. One  day Ceiuci came to fish and saw a young man’s  shadow near the water. She cast her line into  the water and saw the young man laugh. She  looked up and said, “Descend,” but the young  fellow refused. She then sent biting ants after  him. When he jumped into the water, she  caught him and took him home, intending to  eat him. While she was fetching wood, her  daughter came upon the captive. He persuaded  her to hide him. When Ceiuci returned, the  two fled, dropping palm branches on the way;  these were transformed into animals that the  witch stopped to eat. Eventually, the young  man reached the hut of an old woman, who  was his mother. By this time he was an old man  himself.  Celaeno   (swarthy)   In Greek mythology, one  of the seven Pleiades (a constellation), daughter  of Atlas and Pleione. Celaeno was the mother  of Lycus and Chimaereusc by Poseidon and,  according   to   some   accounts,   the   mother   of  Delphus by Apollo. Celaeno is also the the name  of one of the Danaides (the 50 daughters of King  Danaus), the name of a daughter of Poseidon  and Ergea, and the name of one of the Harpies.  See also:   apollo; atlas; harpies; pleiades;  poseidon  Cenn   Cruaich   (lord   of   the   mound)   In  Celtic   mythology,   chief   idol   worshipped   in  pre- Christian Ireland by the sacrifice of first -  lings, both human and animal, on Samh’in.  According to ancient accounts, his image was  made of gold surrounded by 12 stones, and  stood on the plain of Mag Slecht in Ulster.  When St. Patrick came to Ireland, according to  Christian accounts, the Idol of Cenn Cruaich  bent down to honor the saint and was called  Cromcruaich (the bowedone Cruaich).  See also:   patrick, st.; samh’in  centaur   (wounder, stabber)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a half-man, half-horse creature living prin -  cipally in Thessaly; offspring of either Ixion and  Nephele, a cloud, or Apollo’s son Centaurus and  Silbia, or Centaurus and the mare Magnesian.  Centaurs, noted as rapists and drunkards, came to  the marriage of Hippodameia and Pirithous, king  of the Lapiths, as invited guests and attempted to  rape the women and kill the men. Pirithous and  his friend Theseus killed many centaurs at the  wedding and drove the rest out of Thessaly. But  not all centaurs were lascivious drunkards. The  centaur Chiron, son of Cronus and an Oceanid,  was a friend of man, teaching him the arts of  healing, hunting, and music. He was the tutor of  Asclepius, the god of medicine, and also of Jason,  Achilles, and Heracles. During a fight with some  other centaurs one of Heracles’ poisoned arrows  accidentally struck Chiron, who was immortal.  To avoid suffering from the wound for eternity,  Chiron asked Zeus to let him die. Zeus then pre -  sented his immortality to Prometheus and out of  The centaur Chiron  23    Ceiuci

=== 페이지 256 ===
pity placed Chiron in the heavens as the constel -  lation Sagittarius, the archer, the ninth sign of  the Zodiac. In general, the Greeks used centaurs  in their art and literature to represent barbaric  civilization. They are often portrayed on vases  and appear on the metope of the Parthenon and  as sculptures on the west pediment of the temple  of Zeus at Olympia. In Roman art they are por -  trayed in Pompeii at the House of the Centaur. In  medieval Christian art they represent man’s ani -  mal nature. For example, a centaur is portrayed  on one of the capitals of Winchester Cathedral  in England. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6.618) and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12), which describes  the battle of the Lapiths and centaurs, inspired  Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (4.1.23), which tells of  the battle of the centaurs with Heracles as well  as the Lapith-centaur battle.  See   also:   achilles;   apollo;   asclepius;  heracles; ixion; jason; prometheus; theseus;  zodiac  Ceridwen   (Cerridwen,   Keridwen)   (white,  blessed)   In Celtic mythology, a British fer -  tility goddess; the shape-shifting daughter of  Ogyrven; wife of Tegid the Bold; mother of  Crerwy, the most beautiful girl in the world,  and Avagdu, the ugliest boy. She possessed a  magic caldron called Amen which she kept at  the bottom of Bala Lake (Wales). The caldron  contained a magic drink called greal, made  from six plants. When the greal was drunk, it  gave inspiration and knowledge. When three  drops   of   the   caldron   intended   for   her   son  Avagdu   fell   instead   on   Gwion,   giving   him  wisdom and insight, Ceridwen pursued him.  He first changed into a hare and she into a  greyhound; he became a fish and she an otter;  he became a bird and she a hawk; he became a  grain of corn and she a hen—and finally she ate  him. She then gave birth to him and threw him  into the sea, and he became the bard Taliesin.  Cernunnos   (the   horned   one)   In   Celtic  mythology, the “lord of animals”; he was por -  trayed horned, sitting cross-legged, and flanked  by various animals. Cernunnos was associated  with fertility and prosperity, causing ancient  Roman writers to equate him with Mercury,  their god of commerce and leader of the souls  of the dead. In later medieval Christian legend  Cernunnos became a symbol of the Antichrist.  His posture has been compared to Buddha’s.  See also:   buddha; mercury  Cessair   In   Celtic   mythology,   one   of   the  tribal goddesses of the peoples who preceded  the Celts in Ireland. In medieval legend Cessair  was regarded as a daughter of Bith, son of the  biblical Noah and the first person to set foot in  Ireland. Another version makes her the daugh -  ter of Banba.  See also:   banba; bith and birren; noah  Chabriel   (dryness)   In medieval Jewish folk -  lore, the angel credited with drying up the  waters of the flood mentioned in Genesis (8:13).  In the biblical account, however, Yahweh, the  Hebrew God, is responsible.  See also:   yahweh  Chac   (Chaac)   In Mayan mythology, four-part  god of rain and thunder, patron of the number  13. Chac is the Mayan equivalent of the Aztec  Sagittarius  Chac   23 

=== 페이지 257 ===
deity Tlaloc. At his festival babies and young  children were sacrificed, cooked, and eaten by his  priests. Each part of Chac was connected with a  cardinal point and a color. They were Chac Xib  Chac (the red man), Chac of the east; Sac Xib  Chac (the white man), Chac of the north; Ek  Xib Chack (the black man), Chac of the west;  and Kan Xib Chac (the yellow man), Chac of  the south. In Mayan art Chac appears more  frequently than any other god. He is portrayed  with a long truncated nose and two curling fangs  protruding downward out of his mouth. Paul  Schellhas, when classifying the gods in some  Mayan codices, gave Chac the letter   B,   and the  god is sometimes referred to as God B.  Chachalmeca   In Aztec ritual, high-ranking  priest in charge of sacrifices. Aztec priests were  not allowed to marry, and they lived in a clois -  terlike compound. As part of their initiation  they were castrated and blood was drawn from  their penises, ears, and tongues by a   chaichiutzli,  a ritual stone.  Chad,   St.   (battle)   (seventh   century)   In  Christian legend, bishop of Lichfield, England.  Feast, 2 March.  Chad became abbot of the priory of Last -  ingham in 659, which had been founded by his  brother, St. Cedd. King Oswy then appointed  Chad to the see of York, but he was removed by  St. Theodore in favor of St. Wilfrid. Theodore  was impressed by Chad, however, and arranged  for him to be bishop of Mercia. Chad moved  the episcopal seat from Repton to Lichfield,  “the field of the dead.” He built a church and  lodging. After some two years he had a vision  in which he was warned of his approaching  death. He saw his brother, St. Cedd, with a  troop of angels. They sang and called him to  follow them to God as they ascended to heaven.  Shortly afterward Chad died. In art he is shown  holding a model of the cathedral of Lichfield.  Chagan-Shukuty   In Siberian mythology, a  creator god who formed the earth with the aid  of Otshirvani, another creator god. The cre -  ation is similar to the Earth Diver myth found  in many cultures. The two companions one day  descended from heaven. They saw a frog or tur -  tle diving into the water. Chagan-Shukuty raised  the animal and placed it on the water. Otshirvani  then sat on the animal’s stomach. Otshirvani  asked Chagan-Shukuty to dive to the bottom  of the water and bring up what he found. On  the second try Chagan-Shukuty came up with a  piece of dirt, which was sprinkled on the stomach  of the animal. By now both gods were sitting on  the animal. The animal then sank out of sight,  and only the earth remained visible on the sur -  face of the waters. The two gods fell asleep, and  the devil decided to drown them. But when he  attempted to seize the edge of the earth he no  longer saw the water, for the earth kept growing.  He then seized the two gods under his arm and  began to run toward the shore, but the earth kept  ahead of him. Realizing he could not accomplish  his task, he dropped the gods and escaped.  See also:   earth diver; otshirvani  C h a lc h i hu it l ic ue   (C h a lc h iu ht l iyc ue ,  Chalchiuhcihuatl, Chalchiuhtlicue) (lady of the  turquoise   skirt)   Aztec   storm   goddess,   per -  sonification of whirlpools and youthful beauty;  wife of her brother Tlaloc, the god of rain and  water.  According to Fray Bernardino de Sahagún in  his   Historia general de las cosas de Nueva España,  the goddess “had power over the sea and the  rivers, and could drown those who navigated  on the waters, causing tempests and whirlwinds  that would flood the boats and barges and other  vessels happening to be on the water.” How -  ever, Lewis Spence, the Scottish anthropologist,  observed   that   Sahagún’s   description   “appears  inexact” since the “Mexicans were not a seafaring  people.” In art Chalchihuitlicue was portrayed  as a bare-breasted woman wearing a coronet of  blue paper surmounted by green feathers. Her  dress was of a green-blue tint. In her left hand  she carried a large water plant, in the right a vase  surmounted by a cross, symbol of the four points  240   Chachalmeca

=== 페이지 258 ===
of the compass, from which the rain comes. She  was of great significance for rituals, but she plays  little part in Aztec narratives.  Chalmecaciuatl   In Aztec mythology, para -  dise for children who died before they reached  the age of reason. The concept is similar to the  Christian limbo and may merely be an Aztec  reworking of the Christian belief prompted by  Spanish missionaries.  Chamalcán   In   the   mythology   of   the  Cakchiquel Indians, a bat god, mentioned in  the   Popol Vuh,   the sacred book of the ancient  Quiché Maya of Guatemala.  See also:   popol vuh  Chamuel   (Camael, Camial, Camniel, Cancel,  Chamael, Kemuel, Khamael) (he who seeks  God)   In Jewish and Christian folklore, one  of   the   seven   archangels.   In   Jewish   folklore  Chamuel is the name given to the angel who  wrestled with Jacob (Gen. 32:24–32) but who  is not named in the biblical text. In Christian  folklore Chamuel is name of the angel who  comforted Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane  (Luke 22:43) but is not named in the text.  See also:   jacob  Chandra   (moon)   In   Hindu   mythology,  moon god, source of fertility, often identi -  fied with the magic drink of the gods, Amrita  or Soma. Chandra was the ancestor of the  Chandra-vansa,   the   lunar   race,   which   was  divided into two branches, the Yadavas and the  Pauravas. Krishna (an incarnation of the god  Vishnu) was descended from the Yadavas.  Wilkie Collins, the English writer, in his  novel   The   Moonstone,   tells   of   the   Chandra-  kanta (the moonstone), an enormous diamond  placed in the head of a statue of Chandra. The  moonstone is guarded by three priests who are  killed by an Englishman, John Herncastle. The  novel then traces the life of the gem and the  evil it brings on each person who comes into  contact with it.  Another   magic   gem   in   Hindu   lore,   the  Chinta-mani (the wish gem) grants the owner  all he or she desires. It belongs to the god  Brahma, who is sometimes called by its name.  Other traditions ascribe it to Indra as part of his  crown, or say it is the third eye of a snake god.  See also:   amrita; brahma; indra; krishna;  soma; vishnu  Chang Chiu   In Chinese legend, a deified  Taoist sage who wore thin, unlined clothes,  even in the depths of winter. Once Chang Chiu  was invited to the emperor’s court to exhibit his  magical powers. He cut his clothes into small  pieces and transformed them into butterflies.  They resumed their original shape when he  clapped his hands.  Chang   Hsien   (Chang   the   immortal)   In  Chinese mythology, a deified mortal, patron  god of childbearing, often portrayed as an old  man. He holds in his hand a bow and arrow,  with which he shoots at the Dog Star.  Chang   Kuo-lao   (eighth   century   c.e.? )   In  Chinese   Taoist   mythology,   one   of   the   Pa-  Hsien, the Eight Immortals. He was a noted  magician who could become invisible. He rode  Chang Hsien  Chang Kuo-lao   24 

=== 페이지 259 ===
a magic mule that, when not in use, was folded  up and put in his wallet. When the mule was  needed, water was poured into Chang Kuo-  lao’s wallet, and the mule reappeared. He is  portrayed often with a bamboo tube drum,  carried in either arm; its sounds announced  his arrival in a community. In Japanese legend  Chang Kuo-lao is called Chokaro.  See also:   pa-hsien  Channa   In   Buddhist   legend,   the   faithful  charioteer of the Buddha who accompanied  him when he went out to see the world. He  does not appear in Buddhist legend, however,  as a convert to Buddhism.  See also:   buddha, the  chanson   de   geste   (song   of   deeds)   Old  French epic, often telling of the deeds of such  heroes as Charlemagne, Roland, and Huon de  Bordeaux. The most famous chanson de geste  is the 11th-century   Chanson de Roland.  See also:   charlemagne; roland  Chanticleer   (sing clear?)   In medieval folk -  lore, a clever rooster, always pursued by the  fox. Chaucer’s “The Nun’s Priest’s Tale,” part  of   The Canterbury Tales,   narrates one of the  tales associated with the cock. One day the  fox, Dan Russell, came to the poultry yard  and   told   Master   Chanticleer   he   could   not  resist Chanticleer’s singing. Flattered by the  fox, Chanticleer closed his eyes and began to  sing. The fox immediately seized Chanticleer  and ran off. “I would recommend you eat me  at once for I think I can hear your pursuers,”  Chanticleer said to the fox. When the fox  opened his mouth to reply, Chanticleer flew  out. Edmund Rostand wrote a play with the  title   Chantecler   (1910).  See also:   chaucer; cock; reynard the fox  chapbook   (German   Volksbuch )   Following  the development of movable type and the  printing   press   by   Johannes   Gutenberg   in  Germany   in   the   mid   15th   century,   small  unbound books were printed and sold at mar -  kets by peddlers who obtained their wares  from printshops. The name derives from the  Old   English   ceapman,   meaning   merchant.  The books were small, only 3.5 by 5.5 inches,  and normally consisted of 24 pages. They  often included woodcuts. The chapbook trade  flourished until the late 19th century. For the  most part these small books were condensed  and illustrated versions of well-known works,  particularly   of   local   legends   and   folktales,  such as Robin Hood, Dr. Faustus, Reynard  the Fox, and Sleeping Beauty. Religious soci -  eties also distributed large numbers of chap -  books that dealt with moral topics. Some of  the chapbooks clearly present long-lived oral  traditions, while others suggest written mate -  rials that entered oral tradition by being read  aloud. Only a few collections of these chap -  books still survive, for example in the British  Library, the Harvard College Library, and the  New York Public Library.  See also:   faust; reynard the fox; robin  hood  Chang Kuo-Lao  242   Channa

=== 페이지 260 ===
charivari   A   superstitious   custom   observed  by many primitive peoples in which a loud  racket was made by beating drums, pots, or  other objects to keep evil spirits away from  newlyweds. These evil spirits were always very  jealous, and if allowed to enter the newlywed’s  abode   they   would   bring   harm   to   the   pair.  Noise,   however,   frightened   the   evil   spirits  away. Charivari was once a widespread custom  in   central   Europe,   but   it   degenerated   into  coarse horseplay intended to annoy the bride  and groom on their wedding night. Sometimes  the nuptial bed was “fixed” so that it would  collapse when the couple got in, or cowbells  were attached to the springs, and a crowd  would wait just outside the window, listening  or even offering suggestions. When the crowd  had caused enough disruption, it was expected  that the husband would come to the door and  invite the revelers in for food and drink, at  which time many toasts were offered, especially  to the bride.  Charlemagne   (Charles the Great, Karl der  Grosse)   (c. 742–814)   In medieval history and  legend, king of the Franks, first Holy Roman  Emperor, who appears in medieval legends and  French   chansons de gestes.  Charlemagne   was   the   son   of   Pepin   the  Short and Bertha the Largefooted. Pepin died  in 768, and his Frankish kingdom was willed  to   his   sons   Carloman   and   Charles.   Three  years after the accession of the brothers Carlo -  man died, and Charles took possession of his  dominions. During his long reign of nearly half  a century Charlemagne extended his bound -  aries until they embraced the larger part of  western Europe. He conducted more than 50  military campaigns, among which were those  against the Lombards, the Saracens, and the  Saxons. He was crowned by the pope in 800 as  emperor of the Romans.  His rule as emperor lasted 14 years and  established   what   would   become   the   Holy  Roman Empire. During that time he called  synods, or councils, of the clergy in his domin -  ions, presided at these meetings, and addressed  words of admonition to abbots and bishops.  Education was important to Charlemagne. In  his old age he tried to learn to write but found  it beyond his powers. Distressed by the igno -  rance of his people, he established schools and  had numerous manuscripts copied. He invited  Alcuin, one of the finest scholars of his day, to  come from England to his court and help him  organize a palace school. Numerous legends  grew about his person, forming an important  part of medieval folklore.  In one legend Charlemagne, having built for  his own use a new castle overlooking the Rhine,  was awakened from his sleep during the first  night he spent there by the touch of an angel.  The heavenly messenger told Charlemagne to  go out into the night and steal something. So  the ruler saddled his horse and rode off. He had  not gone far when he met a knight unknown  to him. A challenge ensued, and Charlemagne  unhorsed his opponent. When he learned that  he had disarmed Elbegast (Alberich), the noto -  rious highwayman, he promised to let him go  free if he would only help him steal something  that night.  Guided by Elbegast, Charlemagne secretly  went to the castle of one of his ministers. With  Elbegast’s aid he got into the bedroom of his  minister unseen. There, crouching in the dark,  Charlemagne overheard his minister confide to  his wife about a plot to murder the emperor the  next day. Patiently biding his time until they  were sound asleep, Charlemagne took a worth -  less trifle and noiselessly made his way out,  returning to his castle unseen. The next day he  foiled the plot and later forgave the conspira -  tors when they swore allegiance to him. Elbe -  gast was so impressed by Charlemagne that he  renounced his dishonest profession and joined  the emperor’s service.  Grateful to the angel, Charlemagne named  his new castle Ingelheim (angel home). This  episode is often alluded to in later legends of  chivalry, in which knights, called on to justify  their unlawful appropriation of another’s prop -  erty, disrespectfully remind the emperor that  he too was once a thief.  Charlemagne   243

=== 페이지 261 ===
Charlemagne fighting the Saxons

=== 페이지 262 ===
When Charlemagne’s third wife died, he  married a beautiful Eastern princess, Frastrada,  who with a magic ring soon won Charlemagne’s  complete devotion. The new queen, however,  did not long enjoy her power, for a dangerous  illness overcame her. At the point of death, she  feared the ring might be worn by another, and  she slipped it into her mouth and died. Solemn  preparations were made to bury her in the  cathedral of Mayence (Mainz), but the emperor  refused to part with her body. Neglectful of all  matters of state, he remained in the mortuary  chamber day after day. Turpin, his archbishop  and adviser, slipped into the room while the  emperor, exhausted with fasting and weeping,  was asleep. After carefully searching for the  magic ring, Turpin discovered it in the queen’s  mouth. The archbishop slipped on the ring  and was about to leave the room when Char -  lemagne awoke. The emperor flung himself on  Turpin’s neck, saying he needed him to be near.  Taking advantage of the ring’s magic power,  Turpin told Charlemagne to eat and drink and  after the funeral to resume his affairs of state.  Although old, Turpin was now forced by the  magic ring (which he never took off for fear it  would fall into the wrong hands) to accompany  Charlemagne everywhere. One moonlit night  he stole noiselessly out of the emperor’s tent and  wandered alone in the woods, thinking how he  could get rid of the ring without exposing Char -  lemagne to danger. As he walked, he came to a  glade in the forest and saw a deep pool. He cast  the ring into the pool and went back to his tent.  The next day he was delighted to see that the  magic spell of love was broken and that Char -  lemagne had returned to his own self. Char -  lemagne, however, seemed restless and soon  went out to hunt. He lost his way and came to  the pool where Turpin had thrown the ring. He  was so charmed by the spot that he gave orders  later that a castle should be erected there. The  castle was to become Aix-la-Chapelle (Aachen).  Charlemagne   gathered   around   him   12  paladins, among them Roland (his nephew),  Rinaldo, Namo, Salomon, Astolpho of Eng -  land, Florismart, Malagigi, Ganelon (the trai -  tor), Ogier the Dane, Fierambras, Oliver, and  Archbishop   Turpin.   (Other   names   given   in  various legends are Ivon, Ivory, Otton, Bereng -  ier, Anseis, Gerin, Guarinos, Engelier, Samson,  and Gerard.)  Another   legend   tells   how   St.   James   the  Greater appeared to Charlemagne, telling him  to free Spain from the Moors. The emperor  went to Spain with a large army and attacked  Pamplona. For two months they were beaten  back; then they prayed for God’s help, and the  walls of the city fell like those of Jericho. All of  the Moors who converted to Christianity were  spared, but the remainder were slaughtered.  Afterward the emperor went to the shrine of  St. James at Santiago de Compostela to pay his  devotions and later returned to France.  Once   Charlemagne   was   challenged   to  single combat by Ferracute, a giant. Although  Charlemagne is described as 20 feet tall in  most legends, the emperor felt himself no  match for the giant, so he sent Ogier the  Dane to fight him. Ogier failed, as did Ren -  aud de Montauban, and finally Roland took  the field. The two fought, with Roland trying  to convert Ferracute to Christianity. With  heavenly   aid,   Roland   dealt   a   death   blow.  The giant fell, calling on Muhammad, while  Roland laughed.  Later Roland was killed at the battle of  Roncesvalles, the subject of   The Song of Roland.  The defeat was the result of Ganelon’s betrayal  of Charlemagne’s forces. On his return Gan -  elon was convicted of treason and sentenced to  be drawn and quartered.  Another legend, which sometimes appears  in European art, relates to St. Giles. Char -  lemagne had an unconfessed sin (perhaps an  incestuous relationship with his sister). One  day Giles was celebrating mass in the emperor’s  presence when an angel appeared above the  altar bearing a scroll on which the sin of the  emperor was written. Charlemagne then con -  fessed his sin and was given absolution by the  saint.  Charlemagne   245

=== 페이지 263 ===
When   Charlemagne   is   portrayed   as   a  devotional figure in Christian art, he often  stands next to Constantine the Great. He  generally wears armor and a cloak lined with  ermine. He also wears the Iron Crown of  Lombardy and holds an orb and scepter, a  book, or a model of a cathedral, signifying  Aix-la-Chapelle, where his relics lie. His cult  as a saint was advanced by Frederick Bar -  barossa and the antipope Paschal III in 1166.  Though he was not officially canonized as a  saint, he was given the title “Blessed” by Pope  Benedict XIV. His feast day is 28 January. In  1475 his feast was made obligatory in France,  but today it is observed only in Aix-la-Cha -  pelle and two Swiss abbeys.  See also:   astolpho;   barbarossa;   fierambras;  ganelon; giles, st.; iron crown of lombardy;  james the greater, st.; ogier the dane; oliver;  paladins, the twelve; rinaldo; roland  charm   An incantation that is used to work  some kind of magic. Today the term is also  applied to an object that brings good luck  or averts bad luck, or even a motion, such as  touching or knocking on wood to bring good  luck. Sometimes mere avoidance is considered  a charm, such as not using the number 13, or  two people not going around a post on oppo -  site sides. Charms are used to propitiate benefi -  cent powers or placate evil ones. Many charms,  however, still exist in verbal and even rhymed  forms, such as “Rain, rain, go away, come again  another day,” “Step on a crack, break your  mother’s back,” and “Find a penny, pick it up.”  Evidence of such charms reaches into antiquity,  when charms were used to ward off bees, heal  a broken bone, and control enemies captured  in battle. Two such charms from the begin -  ning of the ninth century in Germany are the  Merseburg Charms.  Mark Twain uses an entire series of charms  in his   The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,   where  Tom and his friend Huck Finn debate which  charm best removes warts. They decide you  have to go to the woods where there’s a rot -  ten stump with “spunk water” in it, just about  midnight, back up to the stump, jam your  hand in, and say:  Barley-corn, Barley-corn, injun-meal  shorts,  Spunk-water, spunk-water, swaller these  warts.  Then you walk away 11 steps with your eyes  shut, turn around three times, and walk home  without saying anything. The importance of  the verbal as well as the active is emphasized in  Twain’s charms.  See also:   merseburg charms  Charon   (fierce brightness)   In Greek myth-  ology, ferryman of the Styx who carried the  dead to the underworld. The dead were buried  with a coin in the mouth.  See also:   styx  246   charm  A Carolingian coin showing  the head of Charlemagne

=== 페이지 264 ===
Charon   (Gustave Doré)  Charon   24 

=== 페이지 265 ===
Charter Oak   In American history and folk -  lore, a large tree once standing near Hartford,  Connecticut. Supposedly, the oak was the place  where the colonial charter of 1687 was hidden  when it was demanded by the royal governor Sir  Edmund Andros. King James II had appointed  Andros governor over all New England, with  the intent of declaring all the previous royal  charters void. When Andros demanded the  Connecticut charter at a Colonial Assembly  meeting where it was displayed, its members  held him off for a long debate. It continued  into the night, and candles had to be lit. Then  suddenly all of the candles went out; when  they were relit, the charter had disappeared.  According to legend, it was hidden in the oak  by Captain Joseph Wadsworth. The tree lived  until 1856, when it was destroyed by a storm.  Chasca   In Inca mythology, the planet Venus,  known as the “youth with the long and curling  locks.” Chasca was worshipped as a page of the  sun (Inti), whom he attended in his rising and  setting. He was sometimes mistakenly thought  to be a goddess.  See also:   inti  Chaucer,   Geoffrey   (1344?–1400)   English  poet whose work   The Canterbury Tales   is one  of the best records of stories and storytelling  from the English Middle Ages. The work was  begun in 1387 but had not been completed at  his death. The tale of a group of pilgrims on  their way to the tomb of St. Thomas ` Becket  in Canterbury provides the frame for their  stories. The pilgrims borrow from Boccaccio  and Dante, but they also relate several popular  English tales of the period. Chaucer himself,  in   the   person   of   a   pilgrim,   alludes   to   the  Arthurian tales. Some of the narrators speak  in their regional dialects. The collection by  Chaucer is thus a sample of popular narratives  during his time and a study in when and how  stories came to be told.  See also:   arthur; frame tale; thomas à  becket, st.  Chay   In the mythology of the Cakchiquel  Maya, obsidian stone from which they made  their cutting tools and ornaments; worshipped  as a god.   The Annals of the Cakchiquels,   written  at the end of the 16th century, tells how the  Indians “gave homage to the Obsidian Stone”  and how it spoke to them, telling them where  to settle for a happy and good life.  Chelm Goat, The   Jewish folktale about  how the disciples of the rabbi of Chelm were  tricked by an innkeeper.  Once the rabbi of Chelm became ill. He was  told that only goat’s milk could cure him, so his  disciples went to another town to buy a nanny  goat. On their way home they stopped at an inn.  The innkeeper switched his billy goat for the  nanny goat while the men drank. When they  arrived home and tried to milk the goat they dis -  covered it was a billy goat. They returned to the  trader, thinking he had tricked them, and again  they stopped at the inn for a drink. The inn -  keeper again switched the goats, so they arrived  at the trader with the nanny goat and complained  that it was a billy goat. The trader demonstrated  that the goat was indeed a nanny capable of giv -  ing milk. The rabbi of Chelm asked the disciples  to get a certificate from Rabbi Shmul in the  trader’s town, warranting that they were sold a  nanny goat. They obtained the document and  returned to Chelm, but the goats were once  again switched at the inn, and they arrived with  the billy goat. They now believed they had been  bewitched. The rabbi of Chelm replied, “Rabbi  Shmul is a wise and upright man. He never  writes anything that is not true. If he tells us that  the goat is a nanny, you can believe that it is not  a billy. Now you will ask: how is it that the goat  he says is a nanny turns out to be a billy goat? A  good question. The answer is simple. The goat  he saw was a nanny, but we have such bad luck  in Chelm that by the time the goat reached our  town it was turned into a billy goat.”  This folktale was used by Sholom Aleichem in  his Yiddish short story “The Enchanted Tailor,”  included in his book   The Old Country   (1946).  24    Charter Oak

=== 페이지 266 ===
Chemosh   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Moabite), a god of Moab; enemy of Yahweh,  the Hebrew god, in the Old Testament. Nothing  specific is known about the cult of Chemosh,  though King Solomon, beguiled by his foreign  wives, built “an high place for Chemosh, the  abomination of Moab, in the hill that is before  Jerusalem” (2 Kings 11:7). This shrine to the  god was destroyed by the religious reforms of  King Josiah (2 Kings 23:13). In Milton’s   Paradise  Lost   (book 1), Chemos is a fallen angel listed in  a catalog of demons enumerated by the poet.  Milton’s line “Next Chemos, th’ obscene dread  of Moab’s sons,” indicates that Milton believed  that human sacrifices of young men were made  to Chemos. St. Jerome, commenting on some  biblical verses that mention Chemosh, equated  the   name   with   Baal-peor,   another   Moabite  god, whom the Israelites adopted in their wor -  ship of foreign gods and goddesses.  See   also:   baal;   jerome,   st.;   solomon;  yahweh  Cheng San-kung   In Chinese legend, a dei -  fied mortal honored as patron god of fisher -  men. Cheng San-kung, Hou Erh-kung, and  Keng Ch’i-kung all fished together, as sworn  brothers. One day they saw a yellow rock pro -  truding out of the water. A spirit told them it  was made of gold. They rowed to the rock and  tried to pick it up, but it was too heavy to move.  Then they prayed to Buddha, promising to  build a temple in exchange for the golden rock.  Their prayers were answered: the rock became  light, and they took it home. In return, they  built a temple to Buddha.  See also:   buddha, the  Ch’en Nan   In Chinese legend, a sage who  had the power to cause rain; he lived 1,350  years, mostly on dogs’ flesh. Once, passing  through a village, he found people praying for  rain. Detecting a dragon (maker of rain) hid -  den in the mud, he forced the animal to come  out, which made it rain. Ch’en Nan is often  portrayed in Chinese and Japanese art evoking  a dragon from a gourd or bowl or sailing on a  large hat, which he used once to cross a river  when there was no one to ferry him. In Japanese  legend, Ch’en Nan is called Chinnan.  Chenuke   In   the   mythology   of   the   Ona  Indians of Tierra del Fuego, the personifica -  tion of evil. The hero hunter Kwanyip fought  and defeated him.  Che Puteh Jambai   In Malayan legend, a  poor man who was told in a dream to murder  his wife if he wished to get rich.  Che Puteh Jambai and his wife were so poor  they could not afford clothes for both of them.  When one left the house, the other stayed at  home naked. In a dream Che Puteh was told  to kill his wife and he would then be rich, so  the man told his wife to prepare for death.  She, being a faithful wife according to Oriental  beliefs, just asked permission to go down to  the river to wash herself with some lime juice.  At the river she divided the limes with her  knife, cutting herself in the process, and blood  dripped onto the rocks and into the river. As  each drop was carried away by the current, a  large jar immediately rose to the surface and  floated upstream. When each jar reached her,  Che Puteh’s wife tapped it with her knife and  pulled it in to the edge of the rocks. When she  found the jars full of gold, the everfaithful wife  went in search of her husband. He kept the gold  and decided it was best to keep his wife as well.  They lived happily together for many years,  and a beautiful daughter was born to them. All  the rajahs and chiefs wanted her for a wife. The  couple, however, hid all of their gold and disap -  peared. They have not been seen since, nor has  their treasure ever been found.  Cheron,   St.   (dear   one?)   (third   century)  In Christian legend, bishop of Chartres, France.  On his way to visit his teacher, St. Denis,  Cheron was attacked by robbers who struck off  his head. Taking his head into his hand, he con -  tinued his journey from Chartres to Paris. One  Cheron, St.   24 

=== 페이지 267 ===
of the windows in the cathedral of Chartres  portrays the legend of the saint.  See also:   denis, st.  Cherruve   In the folklore of the Araucanian  Indians of Chile, the spirits of shooting stars.  cherry   A fruit tree; in world mythology and  folklore, often a symbol of female sexuality. In  the Finnish epic poem   The Kalevala   (rune 50),  the Maiden of the Air, Marjatta, swallows a cher -  ry and becomes pregnant. In China the cherry is  identified with female beauty and female power.  In   Japanese   folklore,   the   cherry   symbolizes  prosperity and riches. In an American folk song  the cherry appears in the following verse:  I gave my love a cherry without a stone;  I gave my love a chicken without a bone;  I gave my love a ring without an end;  I gave my love a baby with no crying.  This riddle song concludes with these answers:  A cherry, when it’s blooming, it has no  stone;  A chicken, when it’s pipping, it has no  bone;  A ring, when it’s rolling, it has no end;  A baby, when it’s sleeping, has no crying.  In English folklore, dreaming of a cherry  tree means ill fortune is on the way. In Ger -  many it was considered inadvisable to eat cher -  ries with princes because the ruler might use  the pits to gouge out one’s eyes; no reason can  be traced for this outrage. The “magic cherry”  (D981.4) is a common motif in folk literature.  See also:   kalevala, the;   motif  cherubim   (intercessor)   In Jewish, Christian,  and Islamic mythology, an order of beings or  angels   derived   from   griffinlike   monsters   in  250   Cherruve  A cherry tree

=== 페이지 268 ===
Near Eastern mythology. In western European  art they are usually portrayed as chubby-faced  babes with small wings.  In the Old Testament cherubim are spirits  in the service of Yahweh (a Hebrew cult name  of God). They are not, strictly speaking, angels,  since they do not deliver any messages from Yah -  weh. In Genesis (3:24), for example, they stand  guard over the way to the Tree of Life, guard  the Ark of the Covenant (Exod. 25:18–20), and  serve as the mount of Yahweh (2 Sam. 22:11).  In medieval Jewish folklore cherubim were  thought of as beautiful men. Christianity in the  Baroque age reduced them to chubby-faced  children, who often appear in paintings such  as those by Rubens. The singular of cherubim  is cherub.  See   also:   angel; ark of the covenant;  griffin; seraphim; yahweh  Chia-Lan   In   Chinese   Buddhism,   generic  name for tutelary gods who protect monasteries.  Chibcachum   (Chicchechum)   In   the  mythology of the Chibcha Indians of Colombia,  patron god of laborers and merchants. Once  Chibcachum became angry with the people  and sent a flood over the land. They called on  Bochica, chief of the gods, to save them. He  appeared as a rainbow near the town of Soacha.  As the sun, he dried the waters, then with his  staff he opened a deep chasm in the rocks so  that the flood waters could recede. From this  the great waterfall Tequendama was formed.  Chibcachum went underground, and from that  time he has supported the earth. Earthquakes  occur   when   Chibcachum   shifts   his   burden  from one shoulder to another.  See also:   bochica  Chichén Itzá   The Yucatec Maya capital city in  north-central Yucatán, near the modern Mexican  city of Mérida. This center was one of the largest  in the Maya area, around five square kilometers.  The city played an important role in the mythic  history and narratives of the Yucatec Maya.  Chiconquiahuitl   (seven rain)   In Aztec ritual,  a god who was impersonated by a slave during  the feast of the god Xolotl Huetzi, the lord of  the evening star. The slave who represented  Chiconquiahuitl   and   slaves   who   represented  other gods, such as Yacatecutli (he who goes  first), Cauhtlaxayanh (eagle face), Coatlinahual  (weresnake), and the goddess Chachalmecacihuatl  (lady of the Chachalmec people), were “honored  as if they had been the gods themselves,” accord -  ing to Fray Diego Durán in his   Book of the Gods  and Rites   (c. 1576), describing Aztec ritual. On  the feast day the impersonators were “cast alive  into   the   fire”   and   pulled   out   “half-roasted.”  Their chests were then opened.  See also:   yacatecutli; xolotl huetzi  Ch’ih   Ching-tzu   (son of red essence, red  spirit)   In Chinese mythology, the spirit of  fire, who made himself clothes from red leaves.  He is one of the Wu Lao, the five spirits of  natural forces.  See also:   wu lao  Chih Nu   In Chinese mythology, the god -  dess of weavers.  Ch’i Ku-tzu   In Chinese mythology, seven  deified   young   women,   invoked   in   times   of  drought, flood, and other natural disasters.  Chimaera   (she-goat)   In Greek mythology,  a   fantastic   fire-breathing   creature   with   the  head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail  of a serpent or dragon; offspring of Typhon  and Echidna. Homer’s   Iliad   (book 6), Vergil’s  Aeneid   (book 6), the visit to the underworld,  and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 9.647) describe  the beast. Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (6.1.8) makes  the   Chimaera   and   Cerebus   the   parents   of  the   Blatant   Beast,   the   evil   monster   of   the  poem. Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 2.624–8)  places Chimaeras in hell. In Greek mythology  the hero Bellerophon destroyed the Chimaera  by mounting his winged horse, Pegasus, and  shooting the monster with his arrows. There is  Chimaera   25 

=== 페이지 269 ===
a famous fifth-century   b.c.e.   Etruscan bronze  Chimaera which is now housed in Florence.  See   also:   aeneid,   the;   bellerophon;  echidna;   iliad, the;   ovid; pegasus; typhon  Chiminigagua   (Chimizigagua)   In   the  mythology of the Chibcha Indians of Colombia,  a creator god. Chiminigagua held light inside  his being. When it burst forth, creation began.  He first made gigantic black birds that covered  the mountain, bringing light. Chiminigagua’s  cult   was   unimportant   among   the   Chibcha  because they considered the sun (Zuhe) and  the moon (Chia) more beautiful and therefore  more deserving of honor and worship.  See also:   bachué; nemterequeteba  Chin   In the mythology of the Muysca Indians  of Bogotá, Colombia, moon goddess represent -  ing the power of female destructiveness. In one  myth she was credited with flooding the earth  when she was displeased. In order to pacify her,  men would dress up in women’s clothes and  perform women’s duties in the hope that the  goddess would not punish them for being men.  Ching   Tu   (the   pure   land)   In   Chinese  Buddhism, the dwelling place of those liberated  who have prayed to A-mi-t’o Fo, the Buddha of  Infinite Light. Sometimes it is called Hsi fang  chilo- shih-chieh (the paradise in the west).  See also:   buddha, the  Ch’in-kuang wang   In Chinese mythology,  ruler of the first hell of Ti Yü, the underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Chinvat   (Chinvad, Kinvad)   In Persian myth-  ology, a bridge over which all souls of the  dead must pass on their way to heaven or hell.  According to one Zoroastrian text, Chinvat “is  like a beam of many sides, of whose edges there  are some which are broad, and there are some  which are thin and sharp; its broad sides are so  large that its width is twenty-seven reeds, and  its sharp sides are so contracted that in thinness  it is like the edge of a razor.” Both the good and  the wicked come to the bridge, but it “becomes  a narrow bridge for the wicked, even unto a  resemblance to the edge of a razor.   .   .   . He who  is of the wicked, as he places a footstep on the  bridge .   .   . falls from the middle of the bridge,  and rolls over head-foremost” to hell. The  good, however, pass over the bridge easily.  See also:   zarathustra  Chipiripa   In the mythology of the Indians  living in the Isthmus of Panama, a rain god.  Chiu-t’ien Lei Kung   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, a thunder god, invoked against disasters.  Chonchon   In the folklore of the Araucanian  Indians of Chile, a vampire with a human head  and huge ears. It uses its large ears for wings to  fly about seeking its prey.  Christina the Astonishing, St.   (I anoint, the  anointed)   (1150–1224)   In   Christian   legend,  patron saint of psychotherapists. Feast, 24 July.  Born at Brusthem in the diocese of Liège,  Christina at 15 was left an orphan with her  Bellerophon on Pegasus slaying the Chimaera  252   Chiminigagua

=== 페이지 270 ===
two elder sisters. At the age of 22 she had a  seizure and was pronounced dead. Her cof -  fin was carried to the church and a requiem  mass was begun. Suddenly, after the   Agnus Dei,  Christina sat up in her coffin and soared to the  beams of the ceiling “like a bird,” according to  one account, and perched there. The congre -  gation, except for her elder sister, who stayed  for the end of the mass, fled from the church.  The priest then called Christina to come down  from the beams. She cried out that she was up  in the beams because she could not stand the  smell of sinful human flesh. She then said she  had died, gone down to hell, visited Purgatory,  and had a trip to heaven. God had offered her  the choice of staying in heaven or returning to  earth to help the poor souls in Purgatory by her  prayers. Christina decided to come back to life  and help the dead. She said that by the time the  Agnus Dei   had been said the third time, her soul  had been restored to her body.  After Christina came back to life, her day-  to-day activities became abnormal. She would  flee to remote places, climb trees, towers, and  rocks, and crawl into ovens to escape the smell  of human flesh. She would handle fire, rush  into a river in the depth of winter, or jump into  a millrace and be carried away unharmed under  the wheel. She liked to pray by balancing her -  self on the top of a hurdle or curled up on the  ground looking like a ball.  Though   the   medieval   mind   was   under -  standing of many oddities, her actions made  some accuse her of being possessed by devils.  Attempts were made to confine her, but she  always broke loose. One time a man attacked  her, broke her leg, and tied her up. A doctor  came to mend the leg but chained her to a pil -  lar for safety. No sooner had he left than Chris -  tina escaped. Another time a priest refused to  give her Holy Communion, and she jumped  into the Meuse river and swam away. She kept  herself alive by begging. She dressed in rags,  frightening the populace. However, when she  sat in water blessed for baptism, “her way of  living was more conformed to that of men, she  was quieter, and better able to bear the smell  of human beings,” writes her Dominican biog -  rapher, Thoma de Cantimpré, who had known  her personally. Christina’s last years were spent  in the convent of St. Catherine at Saint-Trond,  where many nobles came to her for advice.  Christmas   (Christ’s   Mass)   Feast   of   the  Nativity of Jesus, celebrated on 25 December.  The date of Christmas was chosen in 440 to  coincide with the winter solstice and a pagan  festival in honor of the sun god. The actual  birth date of Jesus is not known, and the early  church paid little attention to the matter. St.  Leo,   however,   writing   in   the   fifth   century,  describes the importance of Christmas: “When  adoring the Birth of Our Savior, we are cel -  ebrating our own true origin. For indeed this  generation of Christ in time is the source of the  Christian People, and the birth of the Head is,  too, that of his Mystical Body.”  Numerous legends arose during the Middle  Ages regarding the Christmas season. At 12  midnight, the time of Jesus’ birth (the Gospels  do not mention this, but tradition assigned the  time), all of the animals in the stables, such as  cattle, and deer in the field kneel down to honor  Christ. Bees were believed to awake from sleep  and hum a song in praise of the Child, but the  song could be heard only by those chosen by  Jesus. The birds were believed to sing all night  at Christmas. In addition to kneeling in adora -  tion of the Christ Child, the animals were gifted  with speech on the sacred eve. One French  medieval play portrays the belief. The animals,  it seems, preferred to speak in Latin.  CROW:   Christus natus est   (Christ is born)  OX:   Ubi ? (Where?)  LAMB:   Bethlehem  ASS:   Eamus   (Let us go).  Central Europeans believed, and some still do,  that the animals also discuss the virtues and  faults of various people since they hear all con -  versations during the year.  Christmas   253

=== 페이지 271 ===
People   of   medieval   times   believed   in   a  host of devils, ghosts, witches, and assorted  malignant spirits, and it was believed that their  power was suspended during the Christmas  season. Since the Christ Child was present, no  harm could be worked by the demons of dark -  ness. Shakespeare in   Hamlet   (act 1, sc.1, lines  158–164) alludes to this belief:  Some say that ever ’gainst that season  comes  Wherein our savior’s birth is celebrated,  The bird of dawning singeth all night  long:  And then, they say, no spirit dare stir  abroad!  The nights are wholesome; then no  planets strike,  No fairy tales, no witch has power to  charm,  So hallow’d and so gracious is the time.  If you were lucky enough to die at midnight  on Christmas, you could enter heaven at once.  Children born on Christmas were blessed with  the power of seeing spirits and even controlling  them, according to some medieval accounts.  But in some other accounts a child born on  Christmas was cursed because it was born at  the same time as Jesus.  One legend that constantly reappeared in  different guises during the Middle Ages relates  to the Christmas Angel. Every year the Virgin  Mary selected a number of angels and sent them  out from heaven into different parts of the world.  Each angel awakened a little child from its first  sleep and carried it to heaven to sing a carol to  the Christ Child. When the children returned  to earth, not everyone would believe their story,  but those blessed by God would know that the  children had been specially chosen.  The first hymns in honor of Christmas  were written in the fifth century, soon after the  Christmas Feast was established in the medi -  eval church. The birthplace of the Christmas  carol was Italy. In the 13th century St. Francis  of Assisi wrote a hymn in Latin, “Psalmus in  Nativitate.” Franciscans then composed hymns  in Italian, among them, one that opens:  In Bethlehem is born the Holy Child,  On hay and straw in the winter wild  O, my heart is full of mirth  At Jesus’ birth  From Italy the carol spread to other European  countries, such as France, Spain, Germany, and  England. The earliest English carol was writ -  ten at the beginning of the 15th century.  One of the most important folk customs of  Christmas is that of the crèche, which portrays  the Christ Child, the Virgin Mary, St. Joseph,  and the Wise Men, or Magi. Legend also cred -  its it to St. Francis of Assisi. His biographer,  Thomas of Celano, writes of how the custom  came about:  It should be recorded and held in reverent  memory what Blessed Francis did near the  town of Greccio, on the Feast Day of the  Nativity of Our Lord Jesus Christ, three  years before his glorious death. In that  town lived a certain man by the name of  John (Messer Giovanni Velitta) who stood  in high esteem, and whose life was even  better than his reputation. Blessed Francis  loved him with a special affection because,  being very noble and much honored, he  despised   the   nobility   of   the   flesh   and  strove after the nobility of the soul.  Blessed   Francis   often   saw   this   man.  He   now   called   him   about   two   weeks  before Christmas and said to him: “If you  desire that we should celebrate this year’s  Christmas together at Greccio, go quickly  and prepare what I tell you; for I want  to enact the memory of the Infant who  was born at Bethlehem, and how He was  deprived of all the comforts babies enjoy;  how He was bedded in the manger on hay,  between an ass and an ox. For once I want  to see all this with my own eyes.” When  254   Christmas

=== 페이지 272 ===
the good and faithful man had heard this,  he departed quickly and prepared in the  above mentioned place everything that the  Saint had told him.  The joyful day approached. The breth -  ren (Franciscans) were called from many  communities. The men and women of the  neighborhood, as best they could, prepared  candles and torches to brighten the night.  Finally the Saint of God arrived, found  everything prepared, saw it and rejoiced.  The crib was made ready, hay was brought,  the ox and ass were led to the spot.   .   .   .  Greccio became a new Bethlehem. The  crowds drew near and rejoiced in the nov -  elty of the celebration.  Also associated with Christmas was the Yule  log, believed to be derived from pagan Northern  ritual. The log was burned in an open hearth  during the Christmas season. Its unburned parts  were put away until the following year, when  they were used to light the new Yule log. Closely  connected with the Yule log is the Christmas  tree. It is believed to be in part derived from  the pagan Yule log and the paradise tree, which  appeared in medieval miracle plays about Adam  and Eve. The tradition may be related to the  Roman   feast   of   Saturn,   held   in   December,  during which the temples were decorated with  green branches. The paradise tree had apples  and wafers—later candy—hung from it, and it  signified both the Tree of Sin and Death and  the Tree of Life, the wafers representing the  Holy Eucharist. The modern Christmas tree is,  however, credited to Martin Luther, the Protes -  tant reformer, who saw a fir tree in the forest lit  by stars and was inspired to bring it home and  decorate it as a reminder of the coming spring.  The custom of Christmas trees decorated with  candles and hung with presents came to Eng -  land following the marriage of Queen Victoria  to Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg in 1840, when  there was a craze for things German.  The   custom   of   giving   gifts   during   the  Christmas season derives from an old pagan  Roman custom called   strenae   when the people  gave gifts of pastry, lamps, precious stones, and  coins as tokens of good wishes for the new year.  The giver of the gifts for Christmas varies from  one Christian country to another. In Italy it is  Lady Befana, a fairy queen or witch, who gives  the gifts on Epiphany (6 January), when the  Magi were believed to have given their gifts to  the Christ Child. Her name, Befana, is actually  a corruption of the word Epiphany. In Russia  Babushka (grandmother) gives the gifts. The  most famous gift giver in European folklore,  however, is Santa Claus, who is derived in part  from St. Nicholas and the pagan god Thor.  When the Protestants abolished the feast of St.  Nicholas (5 December), who was the patron  saint of children, a composite figure, made up  of the bishop saint and the pagan god, emerged  and was responsible for giving gifts.  Christmas was not just one day during the  Middle Ages but a season that consisted of 12  days,   from   Christmas   to   Twelfth   Night,   or  Epiphany. It was a time of rest for domestic  animals, horses, and most servants, who often  celebrated various feasts such as one dedicated  to fools that had a Bishop of Fools and a Pope of  Fools. All of this was abolished by the Reforma -  tion, since few of the reformers had any sense of  humor or fun. In the United States Christmas  was outlawed in Boston during a large part of the  19th century. Schools and businesses were open,  and people were fired if they refused to work.  See also:   advent; befana; francis of assisi,  st.; jesus christ; joseph, st.; magi; nicholas,  st.; thor; yule  Christopher, St.   (Christ bearer)   (third cen-  tury?)   In Christian legend, patron saint of  travelers. Feast, 25 July.  Although officially removed in the 1960s  from the Roman Catholic calendar of saints,  St. Christopher still maintains his popularity  with the faithful. His legend, based on Eastern  sources, came to Western Europe about the  ninth century. One tradition says that before  his conversion to Christianity he had the head  Christopher, St.   255

=== 페이지 273 ===
of a dog (he is sometimes portrayed with one  in Eastern art); others say he was a prince who,  through the intercession of the Virgin Mary,  was born to a heathen king. Some sources say  he was born in Syria; others, Canaan; and still  others, Arabia. His name before his conversion  is given as Offerus, Offro, Adokimus, Repro -  bus, or Reprebus.  According to   The Golden Legend,   a series  of saints’ lives written in the 13th century, St.  Christopher was called Reprobus and was a  Canaanite. He was of “prodigious size, being  twelve cubits in height, and fearful of aspect.”  He was so proud of his size and strength that  he swore he would enter the service of the most  powerful monarch in the world. So he went  searching and came to the court of a great king.  He served that monarch until he noticed that the  king made the sign of the cross at the mention of  the devil. He therefore went in search of Satan,  assuming that he must be more powerful than  the king. He found Satan and his host of fol -  lowers, but in their travels he noticed that Satan  trembled when they came upon a wayside cross.  Christopher asked the devil why he was afraid.  He was told that the cross symbolizes Christ.  Christopher then went in search of Christ, who  was an even greater king than the devil.  Christopher found a hermit who instructed  him in the Christian faith, but the saint refused  to be bound by prayers and fastings. So the  hermit told him that if he could not worship  in the acceptable manner he could serve Christ  another way. He sent him to a certain river  where there was a ford and told him to carry  over on his shoulders all who wished to cross.  Christopher uprooted a palm tree for a staff.  Day and night he carried across all who came  to the river.  After many days, as he slept in his hut, he  heard a child’s voice calling him and saying,  “Christopher, come out and carry me across  the river.”  He ran out of his hut and found no one,  so he returned. But again he heard the child’s  voice, and again no one was outside. At the  third call he went out and found a child who  asked to be ferried across the water. Christo -  pher took the child on his shoulders and, taking  his staff, set out. Little by little, the child grew  heavier, until Christopher thought he would  fall into the stream.  “Child, why have you put me in dire peril?  You weigh so heavily on me that if I had borne  256   Christopher, St.  St. Christopher   (Albrecht Dürer)

=== 페이지 274 ===
the whole world on my shoulders, it could not  have burdened me more heavily.”  “Wonder not,” said the child, “for you have  not only borne the world on your shoulders but  him who created the world. For I am Christ  the King.”  The Christ Child then told Christopher to  plant his staff, and the next morning it was filled  with flowers and fruits. After many adventures  Christopher was finally beheaded as a martyr.  In   Christian   art   St.   Christopher   is   por -  trayed as a very tall and strong man fording a  river with his huge staff in his hand carrying  the Christ Child on his shoulders. Sometimes  the hermit’s hut is seen in the distance. Often  found near his image is the inscription: “Who -  ever shall behold the image of St. Christopher  shall not faint nor fail on that day.” Liszt com -  posed   Sankt Christoph,   a legend for baritone,  female chorus, piano, harmonica, and harp, but  the work remains unpublished.  See also:   golden legend, the ; virgin mary  Chthonian   Gods   (earth gods)   In Greek  mythology, deities who ruled under the earth  or were connected with Hades, the underworld,  such as Hades, Pluto, Persephone, Demeter,  Dionysus, Hecate, and Hermes.  See also:   demeter; dionysus; hades; hec -  ates; hermes; persephone; pluto  Chuang Tzu   (Kwuangze)   (Master Chuang)  (c. 399–295   b.c.e. )   Title given Chuang Chou,  Chinese Taoist philosopher, whose work con -  tains fables, parables, and anecdotes.  Chuang Tzu’s basic premise in his work is  that the Tao is the universal way of everything,  pervading the entire universe. One becomes free  only when one identifies with the Tao. There is  no right or wrong because such concepts always  stem from a point of view. For example, life is  good and desirable and death is evil only from  the point of view of the living. How does one  know that the reverse is not true?  One of the most famous episodes in his work  is the account of his mourning for his wife.  When Chuang Tzu’s wife died, Hui Tzu went  to console him. He found the widower sitting  on the ground with his legs spread out at a right  angle, singing and beating time on a bowl.  “To live with your wife,” said Hui Tzu, “and  see your eldest son grow up to be a man, and  then not to shed a tear over her corpse—this  would be bad enough. But to drum on a bowl  and sing; surely this is going too far.”  “Not at all,” replied Chuang Tzu. “When  she died, I could not help being affected by her  death. Soon, however, I remembered that she  had already existed in a previous state before  birth, without form, or even substance; that  while in that unconditioned condition, sub -  stance was added to spirit; that this substance  then assumed form; and that the next stage was  birth. And now, by virtue of further change, she  is dead, passing from one phase to another like  the sequence of spring, summer, autumn, and  winter. And while she is thus lying asleep in  eternity, for me to go about weeping and wail -  ing would be to proclaim myself ignorant of  these natural laws. Therefore I refrain.”  Chu   Jung   In   Chinese   legend,   a   deified  mortal, nicknamed Ch’ih Ti (the red emperor),  honored as the god of fire, which he taught men  how to use. He is also regarded as the spirit of  the Southern Sea. He helped break the link  between heaven and earth and was appointed  to keep men in their right positions in the  established order. He is sometimes portrayed  seated on or riding a tiger, or as an animal with  a three-eyed human face, the extra eye in the  center of his forehead. He is surrounded by  his servants and fire symbols, a fiery serpent  and a fire wheel—plus a pen and pad to list the  places he intends to burn. He is invoked both  to prevent and to cause fire.  Chu-ko   Liang   (third   century   c.e. )   In  Chinese legend, a deified mortal, who in life  was noted for his wisdom. Chu-ko Liang, who  was eight feet tall, was called by the emperor  to be his general. At the time human sacrifices  Chu-ko Liang   25 

=== 페이지 275 ===
were made to the gods, but Chu-ko Liang put  an end to the practice by substituting clay  figures. When he saw his death approaching,  he lit 49 candles, which burned for seven days  on a heap of rice. When he was informed of  the defeat of an enemy, he accidentally kicked  over the candles and fell dead. Before dying,  however, he ordered that seven grains of rice  should be put in his mouth so that his body  might   be   kept   unchanged   forever.   He   also  asked that his body be placed on the battlefield  with two pigeons sewed into his sleeves. When  the enemy saw the sleeves of Chuko Liang’s  garment moving, they assumed he had come  back to life and fled in terror. In Japanese leg -  end, Chu-ko Liang is called Komei.  Chu-lin Chi’i-Hsien   (seven immortals of  bamboo   grove)   In   Chinese   legend,   seven  men who drank and conversed together in a  bamboo grove, or in a place called Bamboo  Grove, about 275   b.c.e.   They are called the  Seven Immortals and were known for getting  drunk and challenging Confucian beliefs. They  are Juan Chi and his nephew, Juan Hsien; Liu  Ling; Hsiang Hsiu; Wang Jung; Shan T’ao;  and Hai K’ang.  See also:   juan chi; hai k’ang; liu ling; shan  t’ao; wang jung  Chunda   In Buddhist legend, a smith who  invited the Buddha to his house and offered  him a meal. It was the last meal eaten by the  Buddha.  Chung-li   Ch’üan   (Chang   Liang)   (second  century   b.c.e. )   In Chinese Taoist mythology,  one of the Pa-Hsien, the Eight Immortals. In  one legend he was forced by an old man to pick  up a shoe that had fallen, and in another he is  said to have done it of his own free will. In art  he is often portrayed as an extremely fat person,  with a bare stomach, carrying a peach, symbol of  immortality, and a fan, by which he revives the  dead. He is believed to have found the elixir of  life. In Japanese legend he is called Chorio.  Chun T’i   In Chinese mythology, goddess  of dawn and light, protector against war; she is  portrayed with eight arms, two of which hold  the sun and moon.  churinga   (Tjuringa)   In Australian mythol -  ogy, sacred objects of stone or wood in which  the spirits of ancestors come to dwell; also, a  mnemonic device for storytelling. These chur -  ingas are ritually decorated, they have high  totemic significance, and they are guarded with  great secrecy. They are also a symbol of the  individual possessor’s eternal identity.  churning of the ocean   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, term used for the cosmic struggle between  the demons and gods over the Amrita, the  water of life, often identified with Soma juice.  Durvasas (ill-clothed), a Hindu sage and an  incarnation of the god Shiva, offered Indra a  Chung-li Ch’üan  25    Chu-lin Chi’i-Hsien

=== 페이지 276 ===
garland as a gift, which Indra ignored. Because  of this affront, Durvasas cursed Indra, saying that  “his sovereignty over the three worlds should be  subverted.” Under the curse Indra and the gods  grew weak and were on their way to destruction.  The Asuras, or demons, seeing an opportunity,  used all of their powers to finish off the gods and  gain control of the three worlds.  In desperation some of the gods fled to  Brahma, asking him for protection. He advised  them to seek the aid of Vishnu.  “I   will   restore   your   strength,”   Vishnu  replied, “but you must do as I command you.  Cast into the Milky Sea some magic herbs,  then take Mount Mandara for a churning stick,  the serpent Shesha for a rope, and churn the  ocean to obtain the Amrita, the water of life.  To do this you will need the help of the Asuras.  Promise them some of the Amrita, but I will  make sure they have no share of it.”  The gods listened to Vishnu and entered  into an alliance with the Asuras, the demons,  to set about the task of obtaining the Amrita.  They cast the magic herbs and took Mount  Mandara for a churning stick and Shesha the  serpent for a rope. (In India a churning stick  is a stick with a long rope twisted around it.  The rope, held at both ends, keeps the stick in  a vertical position, while the turning caused by  pulling the rope accomplishes the churning.)  The gods grabbed the serpent’s tail while the  Asuras pulled its head. Vishnu took the form of  Kurma, a tortoise, his second avatar or incar -  nation, and became a pivot as the mountain  twirled around.  Vishnu was also present but unseen among  the gods and demons pulling the serpent back  and forth, as well as present on top of the  mountain. Vishnu thus sustained the gods with  his powerful energy. When the venom from  the serpent Shesha burned the faces of the Asu -  ras, Vishnu protected the gods from the same  fate by sending up clouds with rain that drifted  toward the serpent.  First,   the   wish-bestowing   cow,   Surabhi,  arose from the sea. Next came the goddess of  wine, Varuni, with rolling eyes. Suddenly the  magic tree Parijata appeared. It was “the delight  of the nymphs of heaven, perfuming the world  with its blossoms.” (Later the tree was kept in  Indra’s heaven and was the pride of one of his  wives, Sachi. When Krishna visited Indra he  carried away the tree, causing a war between  the two, which Indra lost. After Krishna’s death,  however, the tree was returned to Indra.) After  the appearance of the Parijata there came the  Apsaras, water nymphs, then the moon, which  Shiva took and placed on his brow. Next came  a draft of deadly poison, which Shiva drank lest  it should destroy the world. The bitter poison  turned the god’s throat blue, earning for him  the   epithet   Nilakantha   (blue   throat).   Next  came Dhanvantari, physician of the gods, hold -  ing in his hands a cup of the Amrita. Then the  goddess Sri appeared seated on an open lotus.  She came to the god Vishnu’s breast to rest.  A fabulous jewel, Kaustubha, also appeared,  which Vishnu placed on his breast.  The demons now took the opportunity to  steal the cup from Dhanvantari and were ready  to drink the water of life. Vishnu then appeared  as a ravishing woman, Mohini (the enchant -  ress), which made the demons so lustful that  they forgot to protect the cup of Amrita. While  they disagreed among themselves, Vishnu took  the cup and gave it to the gods.  The Amrita, or Soma, as it is identified in  some tellings of the myth, has been interpreted  as the life-giving genital semen produced by  the rubbing of the snake (phallus) at the base  of the mountain.  See also:   amrita; asuras; avatar; brahma;  dhanvantari; indra; shesha; shiva; soma  Chyavana   In Hindu legend, a sage, oppo -  nent of Indra, restored to youth by the twin  gods, the Aswins.  The Rig-Veda, the ancient collection of  hymns to the gods, tells how Chyavana was  restored to his youth, “making him acceptable  to his wife, and the husband of maidens,” by  the twin gods, the Aswins. This miracle made  Chyavana   25 

=== 페이지 277 ===
Chyavana devoted to the Aswins and, accord -  ing to the Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata,  he asked Indra to allow them to drink the  magic Soma juice. Indra objected, however,  and   Chyavana   began   a   sacrifice   that   found  acceptance before the gods. In a rage Indra  rushed at Chyavana with a mountain in one  hand   and   a   thunderbolt   in   the   other,   but  Chyavana stopped the god by sprinkling him  with water. He then “created a fearful open-  mouthed monster called Mada, having teeth  and grinders of portentous length, and jaws  one of which enclosed the earth, the other the  sky; and the gods, including Indra, are said to  have been at the root of his tongue like fishes  in the mouth of a sea monster.”  In   this   predicament   “Indra   granted   the  demand of Chyavana, who was thus the cause of  the Aswins becoming drinkers of the Soma.”  See   also:   aswins; indra;   mahabharata,  the ; rig-veda; soma  Cid, El   (lord, master)   In medieval Spanish  legend, a hero, Rodrigo Díaz de Bivar (1040–  1099), whose victories over the Moors inspired  ballads, chronicles, and the national epic poem,  Poema del Cid   ( Cantar de mio Cid ). There are  some 200 Spanish ballads that treat El Cid’s  legend, forming, as it were, an introduction to  the epic.  Rodrigo,   also   called   El   Campeador   (the  champion), was a young man when he avenged  an insult to his father, Don Diego Laynez, by  Don Gómez. The young hero challenged Don  Gómez and killed him, cutting off his head  and presenting it to his father as proof that the  wrong had been avenged. Don Diego then took  his son to court, but the young man did not  please King Ferdinand, who banished him from  his presence. Rodrigo then left with 300 knights,  encountered   the   Moors,   who   were   invading  Castile, and defeated them, taking five of their  kings prisoner. He released them only after they  promised to pay him tribute and refrain from  further warfare. They were so grateful for their  liberty that they pledged themselves to his will,  calling him El Cid. After Rodrigo had deliv -  ered the land from the Moors, King Ferdinand  restored him to favor at the court.  Shortly after this, Doña Ximena, daughter  of Don Gómez, the man El Cid had killed,  demanded vengeance for the murder of her  father. When her pleas to the king came to no  avail, she asked that the king order El Cid to  marry her instead. To win Doña Ximena’s love  El Cid said he would not rest until he had won  five battles for her. Before he left he went on  a pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela, the  shrine of St. James the Greater, where he had  a vision of Lazarus, the leper beggar (Luke  16:19–31) and as a result established a leper  house in St. Lazarus’s honor.  When King Ferdinand died, his relatives  fought over the succession. Finally Don Alfonso  came to the throne, but the king hated El Cid.  The   Poema del Cid   opens with King Alfonso’s  banishment of El Cid from court. El Cid was  given nine days to leave Castile. He and his men  left and were supported by admirers to whom  El Cid was a hero. Once again El Cid went into  battle against the Moors and again defeated  them. The king restored El Cid to favor, but the  reconciliation was not to last. There was a mis -  understanding between El Cid and the king. El  Cid left the court again, and during his absence  the Moors took Valencia. Hearing of this, El  Cid promptly returned, captured the city, and  established his headquarters there. He asked  King Alfonso to send his wife and daughters.  As master of Valencia, El Cid was enormously  rich, and therefore his daughters Doña Elvira  and Doña Sol were much sought after as brides.  Among the suitors were the counts of Carrion,  whose proposals were warmly encouraged by  King Alfonso. El Cid, in obedience to the king,  had his daughters married to the counts, but the  results were not happy.  Once a lion broke loose from El Cid’s private  menagerie. It entered the hall where he was  sleeping while his guests were playing chess.  His sons-in-law fled, one falling into an empty  vat, the other hiding behind El Cid’s couch.  Awakened by the noise, El Cid seized his sword,  twisted his cloak around his arm, and, grasping  260   Cid, El

=== 페이지 278 ===
the lion by its mane, thrust it back into its cage.  He then calmly returned to his palace. The two  men, however, were angered by the humiliation  of their cowardly behavior and asked to leave  with their wives. After traveling some time with  their brides and an escort named Felez Muñoz,  the counts of Carrion camped near Douro.  Early the next day they sent all of their suites  ahead, and being left alone with their wives,  stripped them of their garments, lashed them  with thorns, kicked them with spurs, and finally  left them for dead on the bloodstained ground.  They then rode on. The brides were rescued by  Felez Muñoz and taken home. El Cid demanded  vengeance, and the king summoned the counts.  A battle was arranged, and the counts of Car -  rion were defeated and banished. The daughters  were then married to counts from Navarre.  The   Poema del Cid   ends here with a state -  ment of El Cid’s death. Ballads continue the  tale. In one the Moors, under the leadership of  Cucar, king of Morocco, returned to besiege  Valencia. El Cid was preparing to do battle  when he had a vision of St. Peter. The saint  predicted his death within 30 days but assured  him that, even though he would be dead, he  would still triumph over the enemy.  El Cid then prepared to die. He appointed  a   successor,   gave   instructions,   and   directed  that his body be embalmed, set on his horse,  Babieca, with the sword Tizona in his hand,  and sent into battle. When these instructions  had all been given, he died at the appointed  time. The successor and El Cid’s wife, Ximena,  carried out his wishes. A sortie was planned  against the Moors, and El Cid, fastened onto  his warhorse, rode in the van. Such terror was  created by his presence that the Moors fled.  King Alfonso ordered El Cid’s body placed  in the church of San Pedro de Cardena, where it  remained for 10 years seated in a chair of state in  plain view of all. Such respect was paid the body  that no one dared touch it, except one person  who, remembering El Cid’s proud boast that  no man had ever dared lay a hand on his beard,  attempted to do so. Before he could touch the  beard, however, El Cid’s lifeless hand clasped  the hilt of Tizona, his sword, and drew it a few  inches out of its scabbard. The man fled.  The legend of El Cid inspired the two-part  play by Guillén de Castro,   Las Mocedades del  Cid   (the youth of the Cid), which in the first  part centers around his wedding. The French  playwright Corneille used part 1 of the Span -  ish drama for his play   Le Cid,   which in turn was  made into an opera by Jules Massenet. The  English poet Leigh Hunt wrote a verse play,   A  Father Avenged,   based on El Cid and his father.  A movie starring Charlton Heston as El Cid  and Sophia Loren as his wife, Doña Ximena,  was also based on the legends.  See also:   ballad; james the greater, st.;  lazarus  Cigouaves   In Haitian voodoo, a demon who  comes at night and castrates men. To avoid  this, genital organs of animals are offered to  the demon.  Cihuateteo   (Cihuapipiltin)   In Aztec mythol -  ogy, the spirits of women who died in childbirth.  They would leave their paradise of the West,  called Tamoanchan, coming back to bring dis -  ease to children. On the days that the Cihuateteo  were believed to descend, parents would not  allow their children outdoors. To placate the  evil spirits, temples were built at crossroads,  and offerings of bread, sometimes in the form  of butterflies, were made. The Cihuateteo were  portrayed with blanched white faces, and their  hands, arms, and legs were whitened with pow -  der. To die in childbirth, however, was consid -  ered honorable and good by the Aztecs.  Cincinnatus, Lucius Quinctius   Named  dictator in 458   b.c.e.   In Roman history and  legend, a hero who left his farm and aided  the Roman army, which was besieged in the  Apennines by the Aequi. Cincinnatus was elect -  ed dictator but resigned his office and returned  to his farm after 16 days. Livy’s   History of Rome  (book 3) tells the tale as an example of old-fash -  ioned Roman virtue.  See also:   livy  Cincinnatus, Lucius Quinctius   26 

=== 페이지 279 ===
Cinderella   (ash girl)   Popular name for a  folktale found throughout the world; the ear -  liest known version has been traced to the  ninth century   c.e.   in China. The best-known  versions   are   the   ones   by   Charles   Perrault,  included in his   Contes de ma mére l’oye   (Tales  of Mother Goose) of 1697, and by the Grimm  Brothers in their   Kinder- und Hausmärchen   of  1812. Perrault’s version tells how Cinderella’s  cruel stepmother and wicked stepsisters force  her to do all of the housework. Cinderella  never complains and even helps prepare her  three   ugly   stepsisters   for   a   ball.   However,  after they leave, she begins to cry over her  sad fate. Her fairy godmother appears and  promises her that she, too, will go to the ball.  With her wand, she transforms Cinderella’s  ragged housedress into a beautiful ball gown,  six mice into white horses, and a pumpkin into  a coach. Cinderella’s ugly sandals are trans -  formed into beautiful glass slippers. The god -  mother then transforms some other rodents  into footmen and tucks Cinderella into the  coach, giving her one admonition: She must  be home by midnight, for at the stroke of 12  her coach will turn back into a pumpkin and  her ball gown into rags. At the ball, Cinderella  enchants everyone with her beauty and mys -  tery, including the prince, who is just about  to ask her to dance when the clock begins to  strike. Jolted back to reality, Cinderella runs  for her coach, losing one of her glass slip -  pers as she climbs aboard and rushes away.  The prince, left holding her slipper, declares  he will marry the girl who lost the slipper.  The prince tries the slipper on every young  girl   in   the   kingdom,   including   Cinderella’s  wicked stepsisters. It fits none of them. He  finally tries it on Cinderella’s foot. The shoe  fits, and Cinderella weds the prince and for -  gives everybody. Perrault’s version, though the  most popular, is but one of the 500 or more  European versions of the tale. Marian Emily  Roalfe Cox made a study of the Cinderella  tale, published in 1893 as   Cinderella,   in which  she presented comparative and analytical notes  to the tale with its many variants. Rossini’s  opera   La cenerentola   is a witty presentation of  the tale. Other treatments include Massenet’s  Cendrillon,   Edvard   Poldini’s   Aschenbrödel ;  Wolf-Ferrari’s   La cenerentola,   Prokofiev’s ballet  Cinderella,   and Walt Disney’s movie   Cindrella,  a somewhat sentimental version of the tale.  In 1982, folklorist Alan Dundes published his  Cinderella: A Casebook.  See also:   perrault, charles; tale type  Citipati   In Mahayana Buddhism, two skel -  etons, one of a man and one of a woman, often  portrayed with arms and legs interlaced, danc -  ing on two corpses. According to Buddhist  legend, they were two ascetics who were deep  in meditation and did not notice that a thief  had cut off their heads and thrown them into  the dust. Because of this they are the enemies  of thieves. Often they carry a scepter topped  by a skull.  See also:   buddha, the  Clare, St.   (bright, illustrious)   (1194–1253?)  In Christian legend, founder of the Order of  Poor Clares. Feast, 12 August.  Clare, the oldest daughter of a noble family  of Assisi, wanted to devote herself to a reli -  gious life. Her parents objected, but Clare fled  from her father’s house to the Chapel of the  Porzioncula one Palm Sunday. There she met  St. Francis of Assisi and placed herself under  his care. In vain her parents tried to win her  back. They also lost another daughter, Agnes,  to religious life. The order of the Poor Clares  was founded in 1212 by St. Francis for Clare.  (The order is also called Clarisses, Minoresses,  or Nuns of the Order of St. Francis.)  Legend   credits   St.   Clare   with   stopping  the   Moors   when   they   overran   Assisi.   They  approached her convent when the saint was  bedridden. She rose up and, taking the pyx (the  vessel that contains the consecrated Host from  the Mass), placed it on the threshold of the  doorway. Upon seeing the pyx, the enemy fled.  Medieval Christian art portrays St. Clare as  a nun in a gray habit with a cord holding a cross  or a lily. Her distinctive attribute is the pyx. The  262   Cinderella

=== 페이지 280 ===
great Italian artist Giotto portrayed the saint in  frescoes in the Santa Croce in Florence and in  the Upper Church of St. Francis in Assisi.  See also:   agnes, st.; francis of assisi, st.  Clement, St.   (merciful)   (first century)   In  Christian legend, third bishop of Rome. Feast,  23 November.  According to legend, St. Clement was a  disciple of St. Peter and St. Paul. During the  reign of Trajan he was banished, together with  other   Christians,   to   an   island   where   there  was no water. St. Clement prayed, and a lamb  appeared to him on a hill. He dug a hole where  the lamb stood, and a stream flowed from it.  As a punishment for providing water to the  Christians he was thrown into the sea with an  anchor around his neck. But the waters drew  back for three miles, and the people could then  see a ruined temple that the sea had covered.  In it was found the body of the saint with the  anchor around his neck. For many years at the  anniversary of his death the sea retreated for  seven days, and pilgrimages were made to his  tomb. Once a woman came with her child to  pray at the tomb. The baby fell asleep, and  the woman became absorbed in prayer. Sud -  denly the waters arose, and the woman fled,  forgetting her child. The next year, when she  returned to the tomb when the waters had  retreated, she found her child sleeping safely.  The Church of San Clemente in Rome  contains his supposed relics as well as scenes  illustrating his life.  See also:   paul, st.; peter, st.  Clootie   (one division of a cleft hoof)   In  Scottish folklore, one of the names of the devil.  It was a custom to leave an untilled section of  land, or one that could not be tilled, as a gift to  Old Cloots or Auld Clootie, representing the  devil. In contrast, Erksine Caldwell’s Southern  Gothic novel   God’s Little Acre   tells of a protago -  nist who dedicates an acre of his farmland to  God. Any crop produced on God’s Little Acre  is to be sold and given to the church. The pro -  tagonist, who is obsessed with finding a buried  treasure, never bothers to plant anything on  God’s Little Acre. When he begins to suspect  that the treasure might be buried there, he  deftly shifts God’s Little Acre to another spot.  He never finds the treasure—or much of any -  thing else.  Clotilda,   St.   (loud   battle)   (sixth   century)  In Christian legend, wife of Clovis, king of  France. Feast, 3 June.  When in danger of defeat by the Huns,  King Clovis, who was a pagan, asked his queen,  Clotilda, to pray to her god to bring him vic -  tory. When he defeated the Huns in battle,  he ascribed it to the Christian god and was  baptized by St. Rémy. At the king’s baptism,  according to legend, the oil was brought from  heaven by a dove, and an angel came down  bearing three lilies, which he gave to St. Rémy.  The saint in turn gave them to Clotilda, who  then changed the arms of France from the  three toads, or   crapauds,   to the fleurs-de-lis,  emblems of purity and regeneration.  In Christian art St. Clotilda is portrayed in  royal robes, with a long white veil and jeweled  crown, either kneeling in prayer or bestowing  St. Clare of Assisi with church fathers  Clotilda, St.   263

=== 페이지 281 ===
alms. Sometimes she is attended by an angel  holding a shield bearing the three fleurs-de-lis.  See also:   rémy, st.  clover   A forage plant with trifoliate leaves.  In Christian symbolism, the clover is used to  explain the Trinity (three leaves yet one clover;  three persons yet one God). St. Patrick is said to  have converted the pagan Irish with this expla -  nation when confronted by King Leoghaire. In  Druid belief the clover was a sacred plant, sign  of both good and evil. In English folklore, if one  dreams of a clover, it means a happy marriage  filled with wealth and prosperity. According to  the Victorian language of flowers the clover is a  symbol of fertility. Finding a four-leaf clover is  still today viewed as a sign of good luck.  See also:   druids; patrick, st.  Cluricane   (Cluralan, Cluricaune)   In Celtic  folklore, an elf who often appeared as a wrin -  kled old man. He is one of three kinds of  solitary fairies in Ireland; the other two are  the Leprechaun and Far Darria. Cluricane was  noted for his ability to find hidden treasure.  He likes to enter a rich man’s wine cellar and  drain all the casks. When outside he will often  harness a sheep dog and ride it for his amuse -  ment, leaving the dog mud-covered. A spirit  taking food from the table or a cupboard is a  well-known motif in folk literature.  See also:   far darria; leprechaun; motif  Clym of the Clough   (Clement of the cliff)  In British legend, an outlaw hero who was sup -  posed to have lived shortly before Robin Hood.  He appears in ballads in Percy’s   Reliques,   along  with Adam Bell and William of Cloudesly. They  were as famous in the north of England as Robin  Hood was in the Midlands. Clym is mentioned  in Ben Jonson’s play   The Alchemist.  See also:   adam bell; reliques  coachman legends   In Hungarian folklore, a  series of tales around the figure of a coachman  endowed   with   supernatural   knowledge   and  powers. Often the coachman is in the service  of some country squire, and there is a younger  coachman who wishes to discover how the  older man can perform all of his duties seem -  ingly without doing any work. The younger  coachman often achieves the knowledge by  performing some magical rite or is told the  secret by the older coachman, who cannot die  unless he passes on his knowledge. The older  coachman’s powers are ascribed to an evil spirit  with whom he has had contact.  Coal-Oil Johnnie   In 19th-century American  history and folklore, popular name of John W.  Steel, who inherited oil money on his 21st birth -  day. He left his wife, job, and child and spent  lavishly. Stories tell of him scattering 10-dollar  bills in all directions, and buying teams of horses  in Philadelphia on one day, only to give them  to his coachmen on the next. He built an opera  house in Cincinnati, but he ended his career as  its doorkeeper. When he had used up all of his  cash, he returned home to his wife and family.  Coatlicue   (Ciuacoatl, Civocoatl, Cihuacoatl,  Coatlantona, Conteotl) (the serpent lady, robe  of serpent)   In Aztec mythology, mother of  the Sun as well as his wife and sister, appearing  in numerous forms throughout Aztec mythol -  ogy as both beneficent and demonic. She was  also the mother of Quetzalcoatl.  According to Fray Bernardino Sahagún in his  Historia general de las cosas de Nueva España,   Coat -  licue was responsible for giving people “poverty,  mental depression, and sorrows.” She would  often appear in the marketplace dressed as a lady  of rank and leave a cradle in which was found a  lance point later used in human sacrifices.  Fray Diego Durán in his   Historia de las Indias  de Nueva España e islas de tierra firme   relates that  Montezuma   II   sent   representatives   to   find  the origin of his ancestors. They discovered a  hill containing seven caves. A priest appeared  and introduced them to an old woman, ugly  and dirty, whose “face was so black and cov -  ered with filth that she looked like something  264   clover

=== 페이지 282 ===
straight out of Hell.” The woman was Coatli -  cue. She welcomed the ambassadors and said  she was the mother of the god Huitzilopochtli.  She had been fasting since the day the god left  and not washing or combing her hair, waiting  for his return from the Aztec land. As the mes -  sengers prepared to leave, she called to them,  telling them that in her land no one grew old.  She then told them to watch as one of her ser -  vants ran down a hill and became younger as he  reached the bottom. The ambassadors watched  the man become younger as he descended and  old again when he ascended the hill.  One of the most prominent manifestations  of Coatlicue was as the deity of grain, in which  role she would appear in both male and female  forms under the name of Centeotl. Centeotl was  often portrayed as a frog with numerous breasts,  symbolic of the wet earth, according to some  commentators. Her face was painted yellow, the  color of corn. During her festivals the priests  wore phallic emblems in the hope of inducing  Centeotl to provide crops for the coming year.  Another important manifestation was as an  earth goddess. She appeared with a huge open  mouth and ferocious teeth, and was dressed  all in white. Durán says that when the Aztecs  won a great victory under the leadership of  Montezuma II, Prince Cihuacoatl, who was  named after the goddess, “attired himself in  the garb of the goddess Cihuacoatl.” These  were the female clothes that were called “eagle  garments.”  An Aztec statue of Coatlicue in the Mexican  Anthropological Museum portrays the cosmic  aspects of the goddess as the great mother, who  brings life and death.  Coatlicue was also known as and identified  with   Tonantzin   (our   mother),   Ilamatecuhtli  (old goddess), Tlatecutli (earth toad swallow -  ing stone knife), Temazalteci (grandmother of  the sweat bath), Itzpapalotl (obsidian butterfly),  and as goddess of fate, portrayed as a beautiful  woman with the symbols of death on her face.  See also:   huitzilopochtli; montezuma ii;  quetzalcoatl  cock   A male bird, usually the domestic roost -  er. The shrill crow of the cock in world mythol -  ogy and folklore is often a symbol of the rising  sun. The Greeks identified the bird with Apollo  in his role as sun god, but it was also associated  with Demeter and her daughter Persephone as a  symbol of fertility. Cocks were often used as sac -  rifices to various deities. In Aztec ceremonies a  cock could often be substituted for a human vic -  tim. Cocks were sacrificed by the Romans and  were sacred to Mars, the god of war, because of  their fighting nature. But along with the snake  they were also sacred to Asclepius, the god of  medicine, for their believed curative properties.  According to Islamic legend the Prophet  found a cock of enormous size in the first  heaven, so large that its crest touched the sec -  ond heaven. The crowing of this bird awakens  every living creature except man.  In Christian mythology the cock is associ -  ated with St. Peter’s denial of Jesus as narrated  in the Gospels. Jesus said: “Before the cock  crow, thou shalt deny me thrice” (Matt. 26:75).  But the cock is also a symbol of Christ’s Res -  urrection and placed on the top of churches.  When the cock ceases to crow, the day of judg -  ment will be at hand. Shakespeare’s   Hamlet  (1.1) alludes to the belief that the cock crows  all night on Christmas Eve so as to drive away  every malignant spirit and evil influence. There  are numerous motifs associated with the cock  in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   apollo; basilisk; demeter; mars;  persephone  Cockaigne, land of   (Cocagne, Cockayne)  In medieval European folklore, an imaginary  land   of   pleasure,   wealth,   luxury,   and   idle -  ness.   In   Germany   the   same   land   is   called  the   Schlaraffenland   and became widely know  through the works of Hans Sachs. The 13th  century   Middle   English   poem   The   Land   of  Cockayne   describes it as having houses made  of barley sugar and cakes, streets paved with  pastry, and shops with an unending supply of  goods. In the satiric novel   Jurgen   by American  Cockaigne, land of   265

=== 페이지 283 ===
writer James Branch Cabell, the hero visits  Cockaigne, which is described as a land of curi -  ous delights. Edward Elgar’s   Cockaigne Overture  is a musical description of London, which in  some accounts was identified as the land of  Cockaigne.  See also:   sachs, hans  Cock and the Pearl, The   Aesopic fable  found in various European collections such  as those of Luther, La Fontaine, Lessing, and  Krilof.  A cock was strutting up and down the farm -  yard among the hens when suddenly he saw  something shining amid the straw.  “Ho! ho!” he said.“That’s for me.” He soon  rooted it out from beneath the straw. The shiny  object turned out to be a pearl that by some  chance had been lost in the yard. “You may be a  treasure,” said Master Cock, “to men that prize  you, but for me I would rather have a single  barleycorn than a peck of pearls.”  Moral:   Precious things are for those who can  prize them.  The fable is quoted by Rabelais, Bacon in  his   Essays   (13), and R. L. Stevenson in   Catriona,  his sequel to   Kidnapped.  See also:   aesopic fables; bacon, roger; la  fontaine, jean de; lessing, gotthold  coffee   (Turkish   qahwah )   A bean used to brew  a strong caffeinic drink. Various world legends  account for the origin of coffee. In an Ethiopian  tale the bean was discovered by a goatherd  named Kaldi. He kept noticing that his charges  were especially lively after they had eaten ber -  ries from a certain bush. Curious about their  behavior, Kaldi ate some of the berries himself  and found them stimulating. Excited by his  discovery, he took some of the beans to his  religious leader (he was a Muslim), who decided  that this might be an ideal way of keeping the  faithful awake during the long evening prayers.  In European versions of the tale the shepherd is  a monk and the goats are sheep. Various forms  of the tale are found in South America.  Coffin Texts   In ancient Egypt, magic for -  mulas   found   inside   wooden   coffins   of   the  Middle   Kingdom.   They   were   derived   from  spells used during the Old Kingdom to guaran -  tee the deceased king’s entry into the hereafter  and were first carved into the walls of the pyra -  mids at Saqqara. The right to use these texts  or spells, known collectively as the Pyramid  Texts, in time was granted to individuals of  nonroyal status. During the time of the Middle  Kingdom, these Coffin Texts, loosely based on  the Pyramid Texts, began to appear inside cof -  fins. In the New Kingdom a somewhat modi -  fied form of these texts became known as The  Book of the Dead.  See also:   book of the dead ,   the; pyramid  texts  Colbumatuan-kurrk   In Australian mythol -  ogy, an evil female spirit who kills people by  throwing tree limbs at them.  Colossus   of   Rhodes   One   of   the   Seven  Wonders of the World, completed c. 280   b.c.e.  It was a statue of the sun god Helios and was  erected to commemorate the successful defense  of Rhodes against Demetrius Poliorcetes in  304   b.c.e.   A 16th-century legend said that it  was built so large that its spread legs reached  across the harbor and that ships could pass full  sail beneath it. There is no evidence to support  this legend, however. In   Julius Caesar   (I, ii)  Shakespeare says, “He doth bestride the nar -  row world like a Colossus.”  See also:   seven wonders of the world  Columba, St.   (dove)   (521–597)   In Christ -  ian legend, Apostle of Scotland, abbot of Iona.  Feast, 9 June.  Born the son of Feidilmid, an Ulster chief,  Columba with 12 companions landed on the  island of Iona in 563, having made the passage  in a wicker boat covered with hides. The Dru -  ids who occupied the island tried to prevent  the Christians from forming a community, but  Columba persisted and built a monastery on  266   Cock and the Pearl, The

=== 페이지 284 ===
Iona, of which he was made the abbot. The  members of Columba’s community were not  bound by celibacy or poverty, only obedience.  They   were   allowed   to   marry,   though   their  wives were not allowed to live with them but  had special quarters on an adjacent property,  called Eilen nam ban (Woman’s Island). The  monks, however, were allowed to visit their  wives from time to time.  The followers of Columba’s rule were called  Culdees. Thomas Campbell, the Scottish poet,  alludes to them in his   Reullura :  .   .   .The pure Culdees  Were Albyn’s earliest priests of God,  Ere yet an island of her seas  By foot of Saxon monk was trod,  Long ere her churchmen by bigotry  Were barred from holy wedlock’s tie.  The Irish poet Thomas Moore, in his   Irish  Melodies,   tells the legend of St. Senanus and a lady  who sought shelter on the holy island but were  told to leave. The relics of St. Columba were  transferred to Ireland in 878 but were destroyed  by the pagan Danes in the 12th century.  See also:   druids  Confucius   (K’ung Fu-Tzu) (Master K’ung)  (551–479   b.c.e. )   Chinese   philosopher.  Confucius, the Latinized form of his name in  Chinese, K’ung Fu-Tzu, was born of a poor  family, but he received a good education. He  married at the age of 19 and had a son. Deeply  interested in the Chinese past, he acquired an  extensive knowledge of the ancient traditions  and worked as a teacher, passing this knowl -  edge on to his followers. Though he did some  government work, at which he failed, most of  his life was nomadic.  According to legend, he was raised to the  status of a shen (spirit) in 195   b.c.e.,   when the  emperor of China offered animal sacrifice at  his tomb. In 555   c.e.   separate temples for wor -  ship of Confucius were ordered at the capital  of every prefecture in China. Even in 1914 the  worship of Confucius was continued by Yuan  Shih’iai, the first president of the Republic of  China.  This is ironic because the attitude of Con -  fucius   himself   toward   deities   and   spirits   is  uncertain. He constantly referred to heaven  as if it were a semipersonal moral overseer but  only once used the more distinctly personal  title Shang-ti (the emperor above). In the   Ana -  lects   (3:12) he counseled the worship of spirits  as if they were present but made no decision  on whether or not they existed. The emphasis  is on the value of ceremony, which for Confu -  cius was not separable from morality. Proper  ceremony is morally edifying; proper morals  are expressed in ceremony. Thus, for him it was  not important whether the spirits existed, but  it was essential that they be worshipped. Later,  therefore, the worship of Confucius’ spirit does  not necessarily imply that he was regarded as  having a spirit that could be worshipped. Tra -  ditionally, the mandarins have been skeptical or  Confucius  Confucius   26 

=== 페이지 285 ===
agnostic and have regarded religion as an affair  of the peasants.  See also:   shang-ti; shen  Coniraya   In the mythology of the Huarochiri  (Warachiri) Indians of the western side of the  coastal cordillera of Peru, a creator god, the  allwise god who knew the thoughts of both  men and gods. It is possible that Cun (Con) was  another version of Coniraya or an aspect of the  god. Coniraya’s myths are told by Francisco de  Avila, a Roman Catholic priest, in his   A Narrative  of the Errors, False Gods, and Other Superstitions  and Diabolical Rites .   .   . [of] the Indians   (1608).  Coniraya once appeared dressed as an old beg -  gar. He fell in love with the virgin Cavillaca,  who sat weaving under a lucma tree. The god  dropped a ripe fruit containing his seed near the  girl, and she ate the fruit and became pregnant.  Determined to find out who was responsible for  fathering the child, she called together the “prin -  cipal idols of the land” and watched as her child  crawled to Coniraya, who was still disguised as a  beggar. Disgusted at seeing who the father of her  child was, she took the baby and fled to the sea.  Coniraya now dropped his disguise. He “put on  magnificent golden robes, and leaving the aston -  ished assembly of the gods” ran after her, crying  out: “O my lady Cavillaca, turn your eyes and see  how handsome and gallant am I.”  However, the girl continued her flight and  jumped into the sea. When Coniraya came to  the coast he found that Cavillaca and her son  had “turned to stone.”  Coniraya then met two daughters of Pachac -  amac, the supreme god of the Incas. Since their  mother, Ursihuachac, was away, “Coniraya had  intercourse with the elder daughter and wished  to do the same with the other, but she turned  into a pigeon and flew away.”  Coniraya then went to Cuzco, taking with  him the Inca monarch Huayna Capac. He told  the king to send a commission to the lowlands  of the west. The commission was made up of  descendants of the condor, the falcon, and the  swallow. “After five days one of the descen -  dants of the swallow reached his journey’s end.  There he was given a coffer with instructions  that it was to be opened by the Inca in person.”  Of course, the coffer was opened by the mes -  senger, who found “inside a radiantly beautiful  woman with hair like gold and dressed as a  queen.” This vision disappeared.  When   Coniraya   arrived   before   Huayna  Capac, the monarch “spared his life because he  was descended from the swallow and sent him  back to the highlands. This time he brought  the coffer intact into the hands of the Inca, but  before the latter could open it Coniraya said to  him: ‘Inca, we must both leave this world. I go  to [the] other world and you shall go to another  in the company of my sister. We shall not see  each other again.’ When the coffer was opened  an immediate splendor covered the world. The  Inca determined not to return to Cuzco. ‘Here I  will stay with my princess,’ he said, and sent back  one of his relations to Cuzco in his place with the  command: ‘Go thou to Cuzco and say that your  are Huayna Capac.’ In that moment the Inca  disappeared with his spouse, as did Coniraya.”  See also:   cun; pachacamac  Constans   In   British   mythology,   an   early  king, eldest of the three sons of the emperor  Constantine. His two brothers were Aurelius  Ambrosius and Uther Pendragon, who was the  father of King Arthur. Constans was a monk,  but at the death of his father he laid aside the  cowl for the crown. Vortigern, however, had  him assassinated and then took the throne.  Aurelius Ambrosius succeeded Vortigern, and  he was followed by Uther Pendragon.  See   also:   arthur;   uther   pendragon;  vortigern  Constantine   the   Great   (firm,   constant,  persevering)   (c.   280–337)   Roman   emper -  or (306–337) who granted toleration to the  Christians.  The historical Constantine bears little resem -  blance to the legendary one found in such works  as Eusebius’   Life of Constantine   and the   Vita  26    Coniraya

=== 페이지 286 ===
Beati Silvestri.   According to legend, Constantine  had a dream in which he was told he would be  victorious over his rival, Maxentius, if he would  adopt the sign of the cross. He saw in the sky a  luminous cross with the words   In hoc signo vinces  (By this sign thou shalt conquer). The emperor,  after defeating Maxentius in the Battle of Saxa  Rubra (312), then adopted the standard, the   chi-  rho   monogram, to replace the imperial eagles.  Another legend is that while Constantine  was a pagan he suffered from leprosy. His  priests said he should bathe in the blood of  some 3,000 children and he would be cured of  his disease. The children were rounded up, but  after hearing the pleas of their mothers, the  emperor decided against the sacrifice.  “Far better it is that I should die, than cause  the death of these innocents,” he said.  That night St. Peter and St. Paul appeared  to him and told him that Christ had sent them  to him because he had spared the innocent  children. They told him to send for Sylvester,  the bishop of Rome, who would show him a  pool in which he could wash and be healed of  his sickness. When this happened, he should  then stop his persecution of the Christians and  adopt the faith of Jesus Christ.  Sylvester was found hiding in a cave near  Monte Calvo when the emperor’s men came  for him. He had hidden there in fear of his life.  When he appeared before Constantine the ruler  asked him who were the two gods he had seen in  a vision the night before. Sylvester said they were  not gods but the Apostles of Jesus Christ, the  only true God. Constantine then asked to see an  image of the Apostles to see if they were the same  as the two men in his vision. When the images  agreed with what he had seen, he asked to be  baptized. Bishop Sylvester performed the rite.  The historical Constantine, however, was  not baptized by Sylvester, as the legend says,  but by an Arian bishop of Nicomedia as he lay  on his deathbed. Sylvester had been dead some  18 months before the event.  When Helena, the mother of Constantine  (who later went in search of the True Cross),  heard that her son had become a Christian, she  said she would rather be a follower of the Jewish  god than the Christian one. Constantine then  asked his mother to bring all of the most learned  Jewish rabbis to debate with his bishop. One  hundred forty rabbis came and debated with Syl -  vester, who defeated them all in argument except  for Zambri, a magician. Zambri said he could  whisper the secret name of God into a bull’s ear,  and the animal would die. A bull was brought  forth, the magician whispered into its ear, and  the animal fell dead. Sylvester, not flustered,  said he would raise the bull to life. He called on  Christ, the god of the living, and the bull arose.  Later legend says that Constantine was so  impressed by Sylvester that he gave him and his  successors (the popes) the territory of central  Italy as well as primacy over all other bishops  in the church. The   Donation of Constantine,   as  the document proving Constantine’s gift was  called, was proved a forgery by Lorenzo Valla,  a 15th-century Italian scholar, though it had  been used by the Roman church to support its  claims for secular authority.  In art Constantine and St. Sylvester are  sometimes portrayed together. Sylvester is seen  receiving the deed from the emperor. When  Sylvester is portrayed alone, he is seen with a  bull. He is easily distinguished from St. Luke,  who is also portrayed with a bull, by his rich  pontifical robes. Piero della Francesca painted  the   Dream of Constantine,   which portrays the  emperor asleep with the angel hovering over -  head, as well as the   Victory of Constantine over  Maxentius   for the choir of the Church of San  Francesco in Arezzo, Italy. Rubens also painted  the victory of the emperor.  See also:   apostle; cross; luke, st.; paul, st.;  peter, st.  continuity   Nineteenth-century   scholars  often looked for ancient roots in items of cur -  rent folklore. Many felt these roots were still  discernible. It is easy but not necessarily cor -  rect to assume that all customs are old, even  ancient. Do we really say   Gesundheit   or “bless  continuity   26 

=== 페이지 287 ===
you”   when   someone   sneezes   because   there  was a belief in the past that the soul escaped  the body, or that the heart stopped beating?  Is the continuing fascination with the magical  transformation of a human into a werewolf  or a vampire a survival of a primitive belief in  human transformations that we have not yet  discarded? Is the belief that animals speak on  January 6, Three Kings’ Day, a vestige of an  earlier belief that humans’ descent from ani -  mals still yields a kinship with them at certain  magical times? Modern scholarship no lon -  ger begins with a presumed antiquity and an  assumption of continuity in such traditional  items.  See also:   revival; survival  Conwenna   In British mythology, the wife  of King Dunwallo, the first king to wear a gold  crown. In William Blake’s poem “Jerusalem” she  appears and “shines a triple form over the north  with pearly beams, gorgeous and terrible.”  Cooper, D. B.   In American folklore, a man  who gave his name as Dan Cooper, boarded  a Northwest Airlines flight from Portland to  Seattle on November 24, 1971, hijacked the  aircraft, and demanded and received a $200,000  ransom on landing at the Seattle airport. When  the   plane   took   off   again,   this   time   headed  toward Mexico, the highjacker parachuted at  10,000 feet from the rear door of the aircraft  into the forest below and was never seen again.  The disappearance of Dan “D. B.” Cooper  has led to numerous legends, ballads, and even  an otherwise forgettable movie about the heist  starring Robert Duvall. Posters, T shirts, and  other items also appeared after the heist. Seat -  tle playwright John Orlock wrote a play about  it, a restaurant in Salt Lake City is called D. B.  Cooper’s, and the town of Ariel, Washington,  near the spot where Cooper is believed to have  jumped, has a yearly D. B. Cooper festival dur -  ing Thanksgiving week (a tradition that dates  back to 1976). As many as 300 to 500 people  show up each year from as far away as Japan.  Cophetua   In British mythology, a mythical  king of Africa who fell in love with a beggar  maid, Penelophon, and married her. She is men -  tioned as Zenelophon in Shakespeare’s   Love’s  Labour’s Lost,   Tennyson’s poem “The Beggar  Maid,” and in a ballad, “King Cophetua and the  Beggar Maid,” included in Percy’s   Reliques.   The  subject was used by Edward Burne-Jones, the  19th-century painter and designer.  Corey, Giles   (c. 1619–1692)   In American  history and legend, one of the victims of the  Salem witchcraft trials, he was accused by Ann  Putnam, Mercy Lewis, and Abigail Williams of  witchcraft. Ann Putnam claimed that on April  13 the specter of Giles Corey visited her and  asked her to write in the Devil’s book. Later,  Putnam claimed that a ghost appeared before  her to announce that it had been murdered  by   Corey.   Other   girls   described   Corey   as  “a dreadful wizard” and recounted stories of  assaults by his specter. He was pressed to death  under heavy weights. Hundreds were tried and  19 executed, including Corey’s wife.  In legend Corey is said to reappear before  times of disaster in Salem. Corey appears in a  good light in Robert Calef’s   More Wonders of the  Invisible World,   which attacks Cotton Mather,  whose writings were in part responsible for the  trials. Longfellow’s poetical play   Giles Corey of  Salem Farms,   part of his   New England Tragedies,  has Corey as a hero, as does Arthur Miller’s  play   The Crucible,   which was used as the basis  of Robert Ward’s opera   The Crucible.  See also:   revenant  corn   In Europe, seed of any cereal grass used  for food (wheat, oats, maize, barley), and in the  Americas, Indian corn,   Zea Maya,   native to the  American continent. In European folklore corn  is often personified as the corn mother or corn  maiden. In Germany peasants would cry out as  the grain waved in the wind: “There comes the  corn mother” or “The corn mother is running  over the field.” Children were told not to pull  cornflowers or red poppies in the field because  2  0   Conwenna

=== 페이지 288 ===
the corn mother was sitting in the corn and  would catch them. Sometimes the last sheaf  of grain was called the harvest mother, great  mother, or grandmother. In Germany the last  sheaf was dressed as a woman, and harvesters  danced around it. It was believed that whoever  got the last sheaf would be married by the fol -  lowing year, though the spouse would be old.  If a woman got it, she would marry a widower;  if a man, an old crone. The North American  Ojibwa Indians have a myth about Mondamin,  who came to earth and battled a hero. He was  defeated and buried, and from his body the  corn grew—a gift to man. The tale is told in  Longfellow’s poem   The Song of Hiawatha.  Corpus Christi   (Christ’s body)   Medieval  Christian feast of the Holy Eucharist, celebrated  on the Thursday after Pentecost; instituted by  Pope Urban IV in 1264. The feast was first sug -  gested by St. Juliana (13th century), who was the  prioress of Mont Cornillion in Liège, Belgium.  She said she frequently had visions in which the  full moon appeared to her in a brilliant light,  except for one spot, which was black. The dark  spot, she said Christ told her, was the lack of a  feast in honor of the Holy Eucharist. One man  who supported Juliana in her efforts to institute  the feast was Jacques Pantaleon, the archdeacon  of Liège, who later became Pope Urban IV.  Thomas Aquinas’s hymn, “Adoro Te Sup -  ples, Latens Dietas,” “Godhead here in hiding,  whom I do adore,” was written for the feast.  Other hymns he composed for the feast were  Lauda, Sion   and   Pangue Lingua.   Part of the cel -  ebration consisted of miracle plays, which were  performed in York, Coventry, and Chester in  England until the Reformation, when they were  banned. In Spain   autos sacramentales   (sacramen -  tal act), one-act verse plays, were performed.  Caldersn wrote more than 70 such plays.  Two English colleges, one at Cambridge and  one at Oxford, are named after the feast. Corpus  Christi, Texas, and Sacramento, California, also  are named in honor of the Holy Eucharist.  See also:   thomas aquinas  Corydon   In   Roman   mythology,   common  name   given   to   Arcadian   shepherds.   Vergil’s  second   Eclogue   tells of the love of Corydon for  his faithless male lover, Alexis. André Gide’s  dialogue   Corydon   uses the shepherd’s name in  his defense of homosexuality.  See also:   arcadia  Cosmas and Damian, Sts.   (order, tamed,  tamer)   (third century)   In Christian legend,  patron saints of barbers, apothecaries, and phy -  sicians. Feast, 27 September.  Their legend, from the East, became a part  of Western Christian lore in the early ages of  the Church. Cosmas and Damian were broth -  ers born in Cilicia. Their father died when  they were young, and their mother, Theodora,  brought them up as Christians. They became  physicians to help the sick, whether rich or  poor, and to help animals. They were eventu -  ally arrested for being Christian and thrown  into prison. At first they were to be drowned at  sea, but an angel saved them. Then they were  to be burned to death, but the fire refused to  consume them. They were then bound to two  crosses and stoned, but the stones, instead of  pelting them, fell on those who threw them.  The proconsul, believing them to be enchant -  ers, then had them beheaded.  One tale in   The Golden Legend,   a collec -  tion of saints’ lives written in the 13th century The Holy Eucharist  Cosmas and Damian, Sts.   2 

=== 페이지 289 ===
by Jacobus de Voragine, tells how the saints  replaced the diseased leg of a patient. They  took the black leg of a dead Moor and used  “celestial ointment” to attach it to the white  man. The operation was a success.  Among   Greek   Christians   the   saints   dis -  placed the worship of Aesculapius, the Greek  god of medicine. They were called Anargyres  (without fees), since it was as rare then as now  for a doctor not to charge for his services.  In Christian art the two are portrayed in  loose dark robes trimmed with fur. In   The Can -  terbury Tales   Chaucer describes the dress of a  physician of his time as a “scarlet gown, furred  well.” Often they hold a box of ointment in one  hand and a lancet or some surgical instruments  in the other. Sometimes they hold a pestle and  mortar.  Stravinsky’s   Les   Noces   (The   Wedding),   a  piece for dancers and chorus with various Rus -  sian texts, invokes the names of Sts. Cosmas  and Damian because they are recognized in  Russia as wedding saints who watch over the  fertility of the couple.  See also:   asclepius; chaucer;   golden leg -  end, the  cow   Female ruminant, symbol of the Great  Mother and creation in world mythology. The  cow was sacred to Hathor and Isis in Egyptian  mythology. In Nordic mythology, as told in  the   Prose Edda   and the   Poetic Edda,   Audhumla,  a cow, licked the salt of the earth and created  the first man.  See also:   audhumla; hathor; isis  Coyolxauhqui   (golden bells)   In Aztec myth-  ology, goddess, the moon lady, sister of the god  Tezcatlipoca, who cut off her head, which now  lives in the sky.  coyote   A carnivorous wolflike mammal of  western North America that frequently appears  in American Indian tales as a trickster and  creator. In one myth Coyote prevented the  creator god from turning some wooden dum -  mies into animals. In anger the creator god left,  and Coyote took the wooden dummies, planted  them, and the first Indians sprouted up. In  another myth Coyote plants some bird feathers  that sprout into humans. Sometimes, however,  he is a victim, as when Coyote’s entire family is  killed by Porcupine because he had cheated the  animal out of his share of some buffalo meat.  See also:   trickster  crab   A   crustacean   having   a   short,   broad,  flattened body. In Greek mythology the crab  obstructs Heracles in his battle with the nine-  headed monster, the Hydra of Lerna. In Japanese  folklore the facelike form or imprint on the back  of a crab is that of the Heiki, a family of warriors  who in the 12th century engaged in a massive  battle with another Japanese family, the Genji.  The Heiki lost and committed mass suicide  by throwing themselves into the sea, where  they were turned into crabs. Their faces were  impressed on the backs of the crab shells. In  Siamese folklore the crab is a symbol of sleeplike  death. As one of the signs of the Zodiac, Cancer,  the crab signifies the oblique, sideways move -  ments of the sun during the summer solstice.  See also:   cancer; heiki; heracles; hydra;  zodiac  Cradlemont   In Arthurian legend, king of  Wales, subdued by King Arthur, mentioned in  Tennyson’s “The Coming of Arthur,” one of  the   Idylls of the King.  See also:   arthur  Crab   (Konrad Gesner)  2  2   cow

=== 페이지 290 ===
Cradock   In   Arthurian   legend,   the   only  knight who could carve the boar’s head that no  cuckold could cut, or drink from a bowl that no  cuckold could drink from without spilling. His  lady was the only one in King Arthur’s court  who could wear the mantle of chastity.  See also:   arthur  crane   A long-necked, long-legged bird. The  crane   is   often   a   messenger   of   the   gods   in  Chinese, Japanese, and Greek mythologies. In  medieval Christianity the crane is a symbol of  vigilance, loyalty, and good works.  Credne   (Creidne)   (craftsman)   In   Celtic  mythology, culture hero and bronze worker  who aided the Tuatha de Danann (the good  people of the goddess Danu) with weapons in  their fight against the evil Fomorians.  See   also:   danu; fomorians; tuatha de  danann  Crispin and Crispinian, Sts.   (Latin   crepida :  sandal)   (third   century)   In   Christian   legend,  patron saints of shoemakers. Feast, 25 October.  The saints were brothers who went with  St. Denis from Rome to preach in France.  They supported themselves by making shoes.  According to one legend, angels supplied them  with leather to make shoes for the poor. This  upset the Roman authorities, who had the two  beheaded at Soissons.  According to a Provençal legend, St. Crispin  is responsible for the practice of the craft of  shoemaking by cripples and hunchbacks: The  saint was so pleased with his first feast day  that he asked that God grant the shoemakers a  glimpse of paradise. A ladder was lowered from  heaven, and some of the shoemakers mounted it.  When they reached heaven, there was a celebra -  tion for St. Peter, and everyone was singing the  Sursum corda.   St. Paul, who was deaf, mistook  the words that were sung and cut the rope hold -  ing the ladder. The shoemakers fell to earth,  causing many of them to become cripples.  St. Crispin’s Day, 25 October, is the anni -  versary of the transfer of the relics of the two  saints from Soissons to Rome in the ninth cen -  tury. The date is the same as that of the battle  of Agincourt. Shakespeare makes Crispin and  his brother Crispinian into one person, Crispin  Crispian, in   Henry V.  See also:   denis, st.; paul, st.; peter, st.  Crockett, Davy   (1786–1836)   In American  history and folklore, Tennessee-born frontiers -  man. Crockett served as a scout under Andrew  Jackson in the Creek Indian War. He entered  political life and was elected three times as a  U.S. Congressman. His motto was, “Be always  sure you are right, then go ahead.” Known  as   the   “Coonskin   Congressman,”   Crockett  opposed the policies of President Jackson and  eventually lost his seat. He left for Texas, where  he died defending the Alamo.  His   legend,   partly   of   his   own   making,  began during his lifetime and told how he  spoke the language of animals, whipped wild -  cats, and killed as many as 100 bears in less  than   nine   months.   A   Narrative   of   the   Life  of David Crockett,   attributed to him, helped  spread his legend, as did the   Crockett Almanacs,  which began to appear about 1835 and were Crane  Crockett, Davy   2  3

=== 페이지 291 ===
published long after his death. An example  from one of the almanacs says: “Friends, fel -  low citizens, brothers and sisters! Jackson is a  hero and Crockett is a horse! They accuse me  of adultery; its a lie—I never ran away with  any man’s wife that was not willing, in my  life.” His tombstone reads: “Davy Crockett,  Pioneer, Patriot, Soldier, Trapper, Explorer,  State Legislator, Congressman, Martyred at  The Alamo. 1786–1836.” A popular televi -  sion series based on his life and legend was  later made into a Walt Disney movie,   Davy  Crockett.  crocodile   An   amphibious   reptile,   both  beneficent and demonic in world mythology;  the crocodile is identified with Sebek, Set,  and Horus in Egyptian mythology. A sacred,  tamed crocodile was kept in an artificial lake  by Egyptian priests and fed cakes, meat, and  wine.   Some   of   the   priests   would   open   its  mouth while others put in cakes and other  food. The meal would end with a mixture of  milk and honey. In the Middle Ages in some  Arab countries, accused criminals were thrown  into a lake of crocodiles. If the crocodiles ate  the accused, he was pronounced guilty; if not,  innocent. In West African belief crocodiles  are reincarnations of murder victims, and in  Hindu   mythology   they   are   the   reincarna -  tions   of   murdered   Brahmins.   In   European  folklore the crocodile is best known for the  tears it is supposed to shed over its victims.  Shakespeare’s   Othello   (4:2) cites the belief, and  the English poet Robert Herrick in his poem  “To Mistress Ann Potter” refers to the belief  that the beast has no tongue: “True love is  tongueless like a crocodile.”  See also:   sebek; set; horus  cross   Major symbol of the Christian faith,  but   found   in   many   other   cultures.   Runic  crosses   were   used   as   boundary   markers   by  Scandinavians. Cicero in his   De Divinatione  (11, 27, 80, and 81) tells us that an augur’s staff  used to mark the heavens was a cross. The  Egyptians used the cross as a sacred symbol. It  was also a sacred symbol among the Aztecs: It  was an emblem of Quetzalcoatl, representing  the four winds that blow. In Cozumel it was an  object of worship, and it is found in Tabasco  and Palenque.  Numerous references are made to the cross  in the writings of the early Christian Church.  The legend of the True Cross, as it was known  in   the   Middle   Ages,   was   one   of   the   most  popular in Western art and literature. It was  frescoed on the choir walls of the Church of  Crocodile   (Konrad Gesner)  2  4   crocodile

=== 페이지 292 ===
Santa Croce in Florence by Agnolo Gaddi and  by Piero della Francesca in the Chapel of the  Bacci, Church of San Francesco in Arezzo.  The tale is told in   The Golden Legend   by  Jacobus de Voragine, source of much of the lore  surrounding saints’ lives and Christian festivals.  When Adam was banished from the Garden  of Eden, he lived a life of penitence, toiling  day and night and praying to God. When he  reached old age and felt death approaching, he  called his son Seth.  “Go, my son,” he said, “to the Garden of  Eden and ask the Archangel who keeps the  gate to give me a balsam that will save me from  death. You will easily find the way, for my foot -  steps scorched the soil as I left the garden.”  And Seth went to carry out his father’s  command. As he drew near, he saw the flaming  sword in the hand of the archangel guarding  the gate, and his wings were spread to block  entrance to the garden. Seth prostrated himself  before him, unable to utter a word.  Christ on the Cross   (Albrecht Dürer)  cross   2  5

=== 페이지 293 ===
“The time of pardon is not yet come,” said  the archangel. “Four thousand years must roll  away ere the Redeemer shall open the gate to  Adam which was closed by his disobedience.  But as a token of future pardon, the wood on  which redemption shall be won shall grow  from the tomb of your father Adam.  “I will give you three seeds from this tree.  When Adam is dead, place them in his mouth  and bury him.”  Seth took the seeds and in the course of  time did as the archangel instructed. Three  trees grew at his father’s grave—a cedar, a  cypress, and a pine. They touched and mingled  with one another, finally becoming a single  trunk. It was beneath this great tree that King  David sat when he bewailed his sins.  King Solomon attempted to use this tree in  the building of his palace, but the tree would  not cooperate, so he cast it out where it would  be   trampled.   The   Queen   of   Sheba   found  it and caused its trunk to be buried on the  spot near where the pool of Bethesda would  be placed, and the tree acquired miraculous  properties.  When the time of the crucifixion of Christ  drew near, the wood rose to the surface and  was brought out of the water. The execution -  ers, seeking a suitable beam for his cross, found  it there. After the crucifixion, the wood was  buried on Calvary, but according to legend  was uncovered on 3 May 328 by the empress  Helena,   mother   of   Constantine   the   Great.  The cross was carried away by Chosroes, King  of Persia, at the destruction of Jerusalem but  recovered in the year 615, on 14 September,  a day that has since remained in the Christian  calendar as the Feast of the Exaltation of the  Cross.  See also:   cedar; constantine the great;  golden   legend,   the ;   helena,   st.;   pine;  quetzalcoatl  crow   A   large   bird   having   lustrous   black  plumage, often associated with the devil in  Christian   symbolism.   English   folklore   says  the crow visits hell in midsummer each year  and makes payment to the devil by giving its  feathers. The birds do molt in midsummer,  and since they are usually absent from their  regular haunts during that time it was easy for  people ignorant of bird migrations to believe.  Plutarch, the Greek author, uses the crow in  one of his essays dealing with chastity. The  crow is cited for its faithfulness to its mate  because, according to Plutarch, it does not  remarry   for   nine   human   generations.   “Can  Penelope match that?” Plutarch asks.There are  numerous motifs associated with the crow in  the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   raven  Cuchulain   (the hound of Cullan)   In Celtic  mythology,   greatest   hero   in   early   Irish   lit -  erature. Cuchulain, who is believed to have  lived in the first century   c.e. , was the son of  the sun god, Lugh, and Dectera, though his  reputed father was Sualtam. As a child he was  called Setanta (the little); he received the name  Cuchulain (the hound of Cullan) when he killed  the watchdog of the smith Cullan and compen -  sated the owner by undertaking to guard his  house in the dog’s place. Later, when the men  of Ulster asked Cuchulain to take a wife, he  said he loved Emer, daughter of Forgall. He  set out in his chariot for Forgall’s home, only  to learn that Emer would not marry him until  he had slain hundreds of men. Cuchulain went  to the war goddess Skatha for advice and lived  with her for a year and a day, learning how to  use the Gae Bolg, a magic deadly weapon.  Skatha then made war with Aifa, the strongest  woman in the world. However, the goddess did  not wish Cuchulain to enter the battle because he  was very young. She therefore gave him a sleep -  ing potion that was to last 24 hours. However,  he awoke one hour later and attacked the enemy,  causing havoc and death. Finally, Aifa incited  Skatha to single combat. Cuchulain accepted the  challenge for himself and by his victory made an  end of the war. Aifa then became his friend and  lover. Before he left her, Cuchulain gave Aifa a  2  6   crow

=== 페이지 294 ===
ring to give their son if a child should be born  of their union. A son called Connla was born;  however, he did not know his real father and was  later killed by Cuchulain, who learned too late  that he had killed his own son.  Cuchulain then fought the sons of Nech -  tan, whom he slew, fastening their heads to  his chariot’s rim. He returned to battle with  16 swans and 2 stags also yoked to his chariot.  Cuchulain then went to fight Forgall and his  men, all of whom he defeated, thus winning  Emer as his wife. When Cuchulain was born,  the Druid priest Morann had said: “His praise  will be in the mouths of all men. Charioteers  and warriors, kings and sages will recount his  deeds. He will win the love of many.”  The most famous deed of the hero is con -  tained in the saga   Táin Bó Cualgne   (The Cattle  Raid of Cooley), written in the eighth or ninth  century.   The   epic   opens   with   Queen   Maev  (Medb) of Connacht and her henpecked hus -  band,   Ailill,   arguing   over   who   had   greater  possessions. The queen discovers she has pos -  sessions equal to those of her husband, except  for one bull owned by Ailill, the White Horned  Bull of Connacht. Maev determines to correct  this imbalance by obtaining the bull from the  Donn of Cooley. She asks Daire, a chief of  Ulster, to lend her the bull. He refuses, and she  then sends an army to invade Ulster. The war -  riors of Ulster, however, are under a curse; only  Cuchulain is free of it. All alone he withstands  the enemy. Once during the various battles  Cuchulain is compelled to fight his dear friend  Ferdiad, who made a bold challenge to him  while drunk. For three days they fight, until  Cuchulain finally kills Ferdiad. Eventually a  truce is made between Cuchulain and Queen  Maev, but she breaks it, sending her men to  steal the bull. They are defeated, and the White  Horned Bull of Connacht is killed by the Donn  of Cooley, who later dies when his heart bursts.  According to other accounts, Queen Maev  waited for her time to avenge herself on Cuchu -  lain for his victory. Maev sent the posthumous  three sons of the three daughters of the wizard  Catlin against Cuchulain. He became ill and was  tended in his despondency in a solitary glen by  Niam, the wife of Connel, and other princesses.  Then Bave, Catlin’s daughter, took the form  of Niam and beckoned him forth to battle. At  the touch of his lips, the wine that his mother,  Dectera, gave him turned to blood. When he  reached the ford on the plain of Emania, he saw  a maiden weeping and washing bloody garments  and arms—they were his own. Then breaking  his geis, or taboo, Cuchulain ate the roasted  dog offered him by Catlin’s three daughters and  went forth again to battle. He bound himself  with his belt to a pillar so that he might die  standing. Cuchulain was killed by Curoi’s son,  whose father had earlier been killed by Cuchul -  ain. The age of the hero was 27.  Cuchulain’s legends were used by W. B.  Yeats in “The Death of Cuchulain,” as well as  in another poem, “Cuchulain’s Fight with the  Sea.” Lady Gregory compiled the legends and  myths in   Cuchulain of Muirthemne.  See also:   maev  cuckoo   Slender-bodied,   long-tailed   bird  with downcurved beak and pointed wings. In  Greek and Hindu mythology the cuckoo is  noted for its sexual appetite. Both the Greek  sky god Zeus and the Hindu sky god Indra at  one time transformed themselves into cuckoos  in order to take advantage of some maiden.  The   ancient   Romans   called   an   adulterer   a  cuckoo. Shakespeare’s song in   Love’s Labour’s  Lost   (5.2) expresses the European belief:  The cuckoo then on every tree,  Mocks married men; for thus sings he,  “Cuckoo! Cuckoo, cuckoo! O word of fear,  Unpleasing to the married ear!”  In European folk belief a man’s fancy turns  toward love in springtime, and the cuckoo is  popularly known as the herald of spring. Delius’  symphonic poem   On Hearing the First Cuckoo in  Spring   captures the mood of springtime.  See also:   indra; zeus  cuckoo   2 

=== 페이지 295 ===
Cuckoo and the Turtledove, The   Satirical  verse fable by Ivan Krylov. A cuckoo sat on a  bough, bitterly complaining. “Why are you  so   sad,   dear   friend?”   cooed   the   turtledove  sympathetically from a neighboring twig. “Is  it because spring has passed away from us, and  love with it; that the sun has sunk lower, and  that we are nearer to winter?” “How can I help  grieving, unhappy one that I am?” replied the  cuckoo. “You yourself shall be the judge. This  spring my love was a happy one, and after a  while, I became a mother. But my offspring  utterly refuse even to recognize me. Was it  such a return that I expected from them? And  how can I help being envious when I see how  ducklings crowd around their mother—how  chickens hasten to the hen when she calls to  them? Just like an orphan I sit here, utter -  ly alone, and know not what filial affection  means.” “Poor thing!” said the dove. “I pity  you from my heart. As for me, though I know  such things often occur, I should die outright  if my dovelets did not love me. But tell me,  have you already brought up your little ones?  When did you find time to build a nest? I  never saw you doing anything of the kind. You  were always flying and fluttering about.” “Yes,  indeed!” said the cuckoo. “Pretty nonsense it  would have been if I had spent such fine days in  sitting on a nest! That would indeed have been  the highest pitch of stupidity! I always laid my  eggs in the nests of other birds.” “Then how  can you expect your little ones to care for you?”  asked the turtledove. In English, the fable is  sometimes called “The Cuckoo and the Wood  Pigeon.”  culture hero   In world myth and legend, a  human, animal, or combination thereof who  gives to his people all good and useful things,  such as teaching them how to gather food. He  may give them the gift of fire and some forms  of   medicines   to   heal   themselves.   In   many  cultures, when the culture hero has accom -  plished his task, he departs, and his people  wait for the time when he will return to them.  In many cultures, particularly African, Native  American, and Australian aboriginal, culture  heroes may also be trickster figures. Most  tricksters, however, have lost their mythologi -  cal associations.  See also:   fire; hero tale; trickster  Cun   (Con)   In   the   mythology   of   the  Quechua Andes Indians near Lake Titicaca,  a thunder god who lived in the mountains  high above the snow peaks. He had no bones,  muscles, or members, though he was as swift  as the wind. His nature was irritable, and he  was not interested in human affairs.  Cupay   (Supay, Supai)   In Inca mythology,  an   evil   spirit,   equated   with   the   devil   by  Christian Indians of Peru and Bolivia today.  W. H. Prescott, in   The History of the Conquest  of Peru,   wrote that no sacrifices were made  to Cupay. He “seems to have been only a  shadowy personification of sin, that exercised  little   influence   over   the   daily   lives   of   the  people.” But Max Fauconnet, in his discus -  sion of Cupay in the   New Larousse Encyclopedia  of Mythology,   wrote that he was “a god of  death .   .   . who lived inside the earth.” He was  a “dreary and greedy god, always longing to  increase the number of his subjects, so he  must be placated, even at the cost of painful  sacrifices. Thus, every year a hundred chil -  dren were sacrificed to him.”  Cupid   In Roman mythology, the god of love,  passion, and desire. He is the son of Venus and  Mercury, and he is identified with the Greek  Eros. In art he is usually depicted as a beautiful,  naked, winged boy carrying a bow and arrow.  With his arrows he could make mortals fall in  love with each other, or in some cases refute  the advances of another. According to legend  he would whet the grindstone on which he  sharpened his arrows with blood. He was also a  mischievous god who played tricks on mortals  and even on immortals.  See also:   eros; mercury; venus  2    Cuckoo and the Turtledove, The

=== 페이지 296 ===
Curtana   (short)   The   Sword   of   Mercy   in  England borne before English kings at their  coronation. The sword, according to medieval  legend, belonged to St. Edward the Confessor.  Curtana has no point, hence “shortened,” and  thus symbolizes mercy. Dryden’s   The Hind and  the Panther   contains these lines:  But when Curtana will no do the deed  You lay the pointless clery-weapon by,  And to the laws, your sword of justice fly.  Curtius,   Marcus   (fourth   century   b.c.e. )  In Roman legend, a hero who killed himself  to close a chasm. According to the legend, a  gigantic chasm opened and could be closed  only if Rome’s greatest treasure were cast into  the pit. Mounting his horse, Curtius leaped in,  and the chasm closed.  Cuthbert,   St.   (famous,   bright)   (Died   687)  In Christian legend, patron saint of shepherds  and seafarers. Invoked against plague. Feast,  20 March.  Cupid with the Arms of Mars   (Adamo Scultori)  Cuthbert, St.   2 

=== 페이지 297 ===
The legends of the saint were written by  St. Bede as   The Life and Miracles of St. Cuth -  bert, Bishop of Lindisfarne,   in the seventh cen -  tury. Cuthbert was a young shepherd in the  valley of Tweed. One day an angel appeared  to him and told him to lead a holy and pious  life. He therefore went to be instructed at the  monastery of Melrose near his home, which  was run by St. Aidan. One night, as Cuthbert  tended his flocks, he saw a dazzling light and,  looking up, beheld angels bearing St. Aidan  to heaven. He then entered the monastery  and   became   abbot.   He   was   noted   for   his  preaching as he wandered among the moun -  tainous regions. Later he went to live on an  island off the coast of Northumberland, one  of the Farne Islands, called Lindisfarne (Holy  Island). Numerous miracles are recorded by  Bede in his life of the saint. For example, one  night when the saint lay on the cold shore,  exhausted by his penance, two otters licked  him and revived his benumbed limbs.  His main attribute, however, is the head  of King St. Oswald, which was buried in the  tomb of St. Cuthbert when the king was slain  in battle.  See also:   bede the venerable, st.; oswald, st.  Cuthman,   St.   (famous)   (died c. 900)   In  Christian legend, builder of the first Christian  church in Sussex, England. Feast, 8 February.  Cuthman lived with his mother at Steyning  in Sussex. One medieval legend concerns the  Devil’s Dyke at Brighton. One day St. Cuth -  man was walking over the South Downs think -  ing of how he had saved the whole country  from paganism. Suddenly, the devil appeared.  “Ha, ha,” said the devil, “so you think that  by building churches and convents you can  stop me. Poor fool! Why, this night I will flood  the whole land and destroy all the churches and  convents.”  “Forewarned is forearmed,” said St. Cuth -  man to himself as he calmly left the devil to his  ranting. Cuthman went to his sister Cecilia,  mother superior of a convent that stood on the  present site of Dyke’s House.  “Sister,” said the saint, “I love you very  much. This night, for the grace of God, keep  lights burning at the convent windows from  midnight to daybreak, and let Masses be said.”  At sundown the devil came with a pickax,  spade, mattock, and shovel and set to work to  let the sea flow into the downs. But the sound  of the nuns’ singing at Mass made it impos -  sible for the devil to continue his work, and he  became paralyzed. When the candles were lit  by the nuns, the cock, thinking it was morning,  began to sing, and the devil, who could only  work at night, fled as fast as he could. Before he  fled, however, he had dug a small hole, which is  called Devil’s Dyke to this day.  Cuycha   In   Inca   mythology,   rainbow   god  who attended the sun, Inti, and the moon,  Mama Quilla.  See also:   inti; mama quilla  Cyhiraeth   In Celtic mythology, a goddess  of streams who appears in Welsh folklore as  a species of spectral female, haunting wood -  land brooks. Her blood-freezing shriek fore -  tells a death. She is depicted as invisible and  bodiless and is heard groaning before death,  especially before deaths caused by a disaster  or an epidemic.  See also:   banshee; la llorona  Cymbeline   In British legend, a king who  reigned for 35 years under Roman rule. In  Holinshed’s   Chronicles   he is said to have been  “brought   up   in   Rome,   and   there   made   a  knight by Augustus Caesar.” He had two sons,  Guiderius   and   Arviragus.   Shakespeare   used  the reference to Cymbeline in   Chronicles   as  well as the story of Imogen from Boccaccio’s  Decameron   for the plot of his play   Cymbeline.  In   some   accounts,   Cymbeline   is   identified  with King Cunobeline, after whom the city of  Camalodunum, or Colchester, is named.  2  0   Cuthman, St.

=== 페이지 298 ===
Cyril   and   Methodius,   Sts.   (lord)   (ninth  century)   In Christian legend, Apostles of the  Slavs. St. Cyril’s feast, 9 March in the Greek  church; St. Methodius, 11 May. In the Latin  church both are honored on 9 March.  Cyril was a philosopher and Methodius an  artist; both belonged to the order of St. Basil.  They were sent by the patriarch of Constanti -  nople as Christian missionaries to the people  who lived on the borders of the Danube. One  legend tells how Bogaris, the king of Bulgaria,  asked Methodius to paint a picture in his  palace hall that would impress his subjects.  Methodius painted the Last Judgment with  Christ enthroned and surrounded by angels  and also panels portraying the punishment  of hell and the rewards of heaven. Impressed  by   the   work,   Bogaris   became   a   Christian  and   adopted   the   religion   for   his   country.  Cyril and Methodius then went among the  surrounding   nations   preaching   the   gospel.  St. Cyril, according to legend, invented the  Cyrillic alphabet and translated parts of the  Gospels.  The two saints are portrayed together in  most icons. St. Cyril holds a book, and St.  Methodius has a tablet on which he is painting.  See also:   basil, st.  Cyril and Methodius, Sts.   2 

=== 페이지 299 ===
6  2  2  Da   In African mythology (Fon of Benin),  serpent god, who symbolizes life and move -  ment. Dako, chief of the Fon nation, mur -  dered a sovereign prince who was on a friend -  ly visit in honor of one of his festivals. This  was a violation of the sacred law of hospitality.  He then attacked Da, the king of Abomey,  laid siege to his capital, and put Da to death  by cutting open his belly. He then placed Da’s  body at the foundation of the palace he built  in Abomey, which he called Dahomey. The  word derives from Da, the unfortunate victim,  and Homy, his belly—that is, a house built on  Da’s belly.  Dabaiba   In the mythology of the Indians  of the Isthmus of Panama, a rain goddess and  mother of the creator god. Dabaiba was wor -  shipped near a river of the same name. Human  sacrifices were made to her, perhaps in the hope  that she would never again send a drought such  as a previous one that nearly destroyed the  population.   In   a   myth   of   the   Antioquians,  Dabaiba appears as the goddess Dabeciba, and  her son is Abira, the creator god.  Dadak   In   Tibetan   Buddhism,   a   guardian  deity, associated with the hero and founder of  Buddhism in Tibet, Padmasambhava.  See also:   padmasambhava  Dadhyanch   (Dadhica, Dadhicha)   In Hindu  mythology, a sage who was taught certain sci -  ences by Indra but was not allowed to pass on  his knowledge to anyone else without punish -  ment.   However,   Dadhyanch   gave   some   of  the knowledge to the Aswins, the twin gods.  When Indra discovered this he set out to cut  off Dadhyanch’s head. The Aswins, however,  removed Dadhyanch’s head and replaced it with  a horse’s head. When Indra cut off Dadhyanch’s  horse head, the Aswins then replaced it with  Dadhyanch’s real head.  See also:   aswins; indra  Daedala   (derived from the name Daedalus)  In ancient Greek cult, a festival in honor of  Hera by the Boetians. It commemorated the  myth about Hera leaving Zeus and hiding. The  god said he would then marry another and had  a wooden image dressed up as his bride. When  Hera believed Zeus was to marry another, she  reappeared and attacked the “bride,” only to  discover it was a wooden statue. Part of the rites  of the festival consisted of dressing a statue and  offering a goat to Zeus and a cow to Hera.  See also:   hera; zeus  Daedalion   (little Daedalus)vIn Greek mythol -  ogy, a young man, son of Phosphorus; brother of  Ceyx; father of Chione (Philonis). He was loved  d

=== 페이지 300 ===
by the gods Apollo and Hermes. His daughter  Chione slept with both Apollo and Hermes and  gave birth to twins. When she was turned into a  hawk by Artemis for rejecting her love, Daedalion  jumped from the summit of Mount Parnassus.  Apollo then changed him into a hawk. The myth  is told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11).  See   also:   apollo;   artemis   daedalus;  hermes; ovid  Daedalus   (bright, cunningly wrought)   In  Greek   mythology,   a   culture   hero,   son   of  Eupalamus (or Metion) and Alcippe (or Merope);  brother of Perdix and Sicyan; father of Icarus.  Instructed by the goddess Athena, Daedalus  was inventor of the ax, awl, and level. He was  exiled from Athens after he murdered his neph -  ew, Talus (sufferer?), whom Daedalus envied  because Talus showed promise of becoming as  great as Daedalus. He escaped to Crete, where  he built the famous labyrinth with a thousand  turnings for King Minos. Inside the labyrinth  lived the Minotaur, the offspring of Minos’s  wife, Pasiphaë, and the Cretan bull. Daedalus,  along with his son Icarus, was imprisoned in the  maze as punishment for giving Ariadne direc -  tions for guiding Theseus out of the maze. To  escape, Daedalus fashioned wings out of wax  and feathers for himself and Icarus. During  their escape Icarus flew too close to the sun,  The Fall of Icarus ( while Daedalus looks on )   (Albrecht Dürer)  Daedalus   2  3

=== 페이지 301 ===
the wax in his wings melted, and he fell onto  the island of Icaria. Daedalus flew to Sicily. The  Sicilian king Cacalus refused a request to return  Daedalus to Crete.  The scene of the fall of Icarus is frequently  found in paintings. Daedalus and Icarus are  a motif in the writings of James Joyce, whose  hero is Stephen Daedalus. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 8) tells the myth of Daedalus and Icarus.  Socrates claimed descent from Daedalus (Plato,  Alcibiades   1). English poets borrowed from Greek  the adjective   daedal,   which means “cunningly  wrought.” Both Keats and Shelley use the word.  Other English poets who mention Daedalus are  Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Auden.  See also:   ariadne; culture hero: minos;  ovid; pasiphaë; perdix; talus  daemon   (spirit)   In Greek mythology, a super -  natural being, part god and part man. Daemons  were believed to be guiding spirits of people  assigned to them by Zeus. Agathodaemas (good  demon) was the name of the good spirit of rural  prosperity and of vineyards. The Romans called  the male individual spirit Genius (procreator),  the female Juno (youth). The word is the source  for the English word   demon.  See also:   agathodaemon; genius; juno  Daena   (Din, Dino)   In Persian mythology,  an angel, the personification of Zoroastrian law  and religion, who presides over the 24th day of  the month.  See also:   zarathustra  Dagda   (Daghda)   (good   god?)   In   Celtic  mythology, Irish god of fertility, husband of  Brigit or a goddess with three names—Breg  (lie), Meng (guile), and Meabel (disgrace)—who  bore him a daughter named Bridgit, and Bodb  the Red, Ceacht, Midir, and Ogma. He pos -  sessed a magic caldron, Undry, that could feed  the whole earth. Sometimes he is called the  Lord of Great Knowledge because he possessed  all wisdom. He was forced from his throne as  king of the Tuatha de Danann (people of the  goddess Danu) by his son Oengus. Dagda was  portrayed holding a large club or fork, so great  it had to be dragged on wheels, the symbol of  his dominion over the food supply.  See also:   aengus og; boann; brigit; danu;  tuatha de dannan  Dagon   (corn,   grain)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology (Canaanite), vegetation god wor -  shipped by the Philistines.  The Old Testament records three incidents  that portray the encounter between the worship  of Dagon and of the Hebrew deity Yahweh. The  first (Judg. 16:29–30) tells how the hero Samson  destroyed the temple of Dagon by taking “hold  of the two middle pillars upon which the house  stood, and on which it was borne up, of the  one with his right hand, and of the other with  his left.   .   .   . And he bowed himself with all his  might; and the house fell upon the lords, and  upon all the people that were therein.”  The second episode (1 Sam. 5:3–4) tells  how the Philistines at Ashdod were killed when  the Ark of God, which contained the tablets of  the law, was taken into the temple of Dagon  and placed by Dagon’s image.  “And when they of Ashdod arose early on  the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon  his face to the earth before the ark of the  Lord. And they took Dagon, and set him in his  place again. And when they arose early on the  morrow morning, behold, Dagon was fallen  Dagon   (Alexander Ross’s version)  2  4   daemon

=== 페이지 302 ===
upon his face to the ground before the ark of  the Lord; and the head of Dagon and both  the palms of his hands were cut off upon the  threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left  to him.”  In   Paradise Lost   (book 1) Milton refers to  this biblical episode when he turns Dagon into  a fallen angel:  .   .   . Next came one  Who mourn’d in earnest, when the cap -  tive Ark  Maim’d his brute image, head and hands  lopt off  In his own Temple, on the grunsel edge,  Where he fell flat, and sham’d his  Worshipers:  Dagon his Name, Sea Monster, upward  Man And downward Fish: .   .   .  Milton’s description of Dagon as half fish,  half man is incorrect. The poet may have bor -  rowed it from an earlier work by Alexander  Ross called   Pansebeia, or A View of All Religions  of the World,   which gives such a description.  Modern scholars, however, discredit this image  of the god, which goes back to St. Jerome, who  believed the word   Dagon   was related to “fish,”  not “grain,” as is now known.  First Chronicles (10:10) supplies the last  Old Testament episode. It tells how King Saul  was killed at Mount Gilboa and his head fas -  tened “in the temple of Dagon.”  See also:   ark of the covenant; jerome, st.;  saul; solomon; yahweh  Dagonet   In Arthurian legend, King Arthur’s  fool. One day Sir Dagonet came to Cornwall  with two squires. As they drew near a well, Sir  Tristram soused them and made them mount  their horses and amid jeers ride off dripping  wet. Malory in   Morte d’Arthur   writes that “King  Arthur loved Sir Dagonet passing well, and  made him a knight, with his own hands; and at  every tournament he made King Arthur laugh.”  Tennyson, however, in “The Last Tournament,”  one of the   Idylls of the King,   says Sir Gwain  made Dagonet “mock-knight of Arthur’s Table  Round.”  See also:   arthur; gwain; round table  Dagr   (day)   In   Norse   mythology,   the   day,  son of Nott (night) and Delling (dayspring).  Dagr’s horse is Skinfaxi. Dagr and Nott had a  horse and carriage that went around the earth  once a day. Dagr appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   nott;   prose edda ; skinfaxi  Daibutsu   (great   Buddha)   In   Japanese  Buddhist   art,   name   given   to   several   large  bronze   images   of   the   Buddhas;   the   most  Amida Buddha  Daibutsu   2  5

=== 페이지 303 ===
famous, Amida Buddha, some 49 feet, 7 inches  in height, located at Kamakura. The work was  erected in 1252 and housed in a temple. The  temple has been destroyed twice; after the sec -  ond destruction it was not rebuilt.  See also:   buddhas  Daikoku   In   Japanese   Shinto-Buddhist   mythol -  ogy, god of wealth, portrayed as a short, stout  man standing or sitting on two bales of rice, with  a large wooden mallet in his right hand and a bag  with a nonvegetable treasure slung over his left  shoulder. The god’s “lucky mallet” is capable of  bestowing wealth with one stroke. Daikoku is the  guardian of farmers and is always good-natured  and cheerful. He is one of the Shichi Fukujin, the  seven gods of good luck or fortune.  See also:   shichi fukujin  Dai Mokuren   In Japanese mythology, one  of the disciples of the Buddha. Seeing the soul  of his mother in the Hell of Hungry Spirits, Dai  Mokuren sent her some food, which became  transformed into flames and blazing embers as  she lifted it to her lips. He asked the Buddha  for an explanation and was told that in her  previous life his mother had refused food to a  wandering mendicant priest. The only way to  obtain her release from perpetual hunger was  to feed, on the 10th day of the seventh month,  the souls of all of the great priests of all coun -  tries.   Notwithstanding   the   difficulty   of   this  undertaking, Dai Mokuren succeeded, and in  his joy at seeing his mother relieved, he started  to dance. This performance is said to be the  origin of the Japanese   Bon Odori,   dances that  take place during the Festival of the Dead, vari -  ously scheduled in different regions but usually  mid-July and mid-August.  daisy   (day’s eye, from O.E.   daeges eaye )   A  small wildflower with white and yellow blos -  soms. The flower closes its lashes and goes to  sleep when the sun sets, only to awaken, open -  ing its eyes, in the morning. In Roman mythol -  ogy, the daisy was formed when the nymph  Belides escaped being raped by Vertumnus,  god of orchards, by being transformed into a  Daikoku  2  6   Daikoku  Daisy   (Walter Crane)

=== 페이지 304 ===
daisy. In Christian legend St. Mary Magdalene,  repenting her sinful life, shed tears that fell to  earth and became daisies. In European folk  medicine the daisy was used to cure ulcers,  madness, and chest wounds. The daisy root,  according to legend, will stunt growth.  See also:   mary magdalene; vertumnus  Daityas   In   Hindu   mythology,   giants   who  inhabit Patala, the lowest region of the under -  world. They warred against the gods and inter -  fered with sacrifices.  See also:   diti  Dajoji   In North American Indian mythology  (Iroquois), the panther, god of the west wind;  his snarl makes even the sun hide its face.  Dakhma   (Dahkma)   Tower   of   Silence   in  Zoroastrian funeral rites, where the bodies of  the dead are left to be eaten by vultures. A corpse  is regarded as unclean and therefore not fit to  be buried in the earth, which it would defile, or  burned in fire, which would also be defiled.  See also:   zarathustra  Dakinis   (sky   goer)   In   Tibetan   Buddhism,  eight goddess assistants who are probably meta -  morphoses of the “eight mothers.” They encir -  cle the heavens and appear in many of the magic  circles. They are Lasya, of white complexion,  holding a mirror in a coquettish attitude; Mala,  of yellow color, holding a rosary, called   pren-ba-  ma ; Git, of red color, holding a lyre; Gar-ma,  of green color, dancing; Pushpa, of white color,  holding a flower, also called Me-tog-ma; Dhupa,  of yellow color, holding an incense vase, also  called bDug-spos ma; Dipa, of red color, hold -  ing a lamp; Gandha, of green color, holding a  shell vase of perfume, also called Dri-ch’a-ma.  Daksha   (able)   In   Hindu   mythology,   a  Prajapati, one of the sons of the god Brahma;  he   sprang   from   his   father’s   right   thumb.  Daksha’s first attempt at populating the world  was unsuccessful. A thousand sons were born  to him by his wife, Asikni, but they did not  produce any offspring. Another thousand sons,  by the same wife, also did not produce any off -  spring. In all, 5,000 children were born, called  Haryaswas. With Asikni he also had 24, 50, or  60 daughters. He gave 13 to Kasyapa, who then  became the mother of the gods, demons, men,  birds, serpents, and all living things.  In Indian art Daksha is portrayed with a  goat head. One day, according to one account,  he insulted the god Shiva, who was his son-in-  law. Shiva, in anger, changed Daksha’s head  to that of a goat, a perpetual sign of stupidity.  Ironically, Daksha’s name means “able,” “com -  petent,” or “intelligent.”  See also:   brahma; kasyapa; shiva  Dalai Lama   (great ocean [of wisdom])   In  Tibetan Buddhism, the spiritual and tempo -  ral head, who is regarded as an incarnation  of Avalokiteshvara, one of the five Dhyani-  Bodhisattvas. He is called in Tibet Gyal-wa  Rin-po-che’e (the gem of majesty; victory).  The Panchen Lama (learned Lama) ranks sec -  ond after the Dalai Lama and is considered an  incarnation of Amitabha, the Buddha of Infinite  Light. The Panchen Lama, being a Buddha, is  spiritually superior to the Dalai Lama. But  since a Buddha is not involved in the temporal  process, but a Bodhisattva is, the Dalai Lama  is temporally superior to the Panchen Lama.  Together, each has the superiority of   primus  inter pares,   as did the kings of old Tibet.  See also:   avalokiteshvara; amitabha; dhy -  ani-bodhisattvas  Dambhodbhava   In the Hindu epic poem   The  Mahabharata,   a king who was punished for his  pride. Dambhodbhava had an overweening con -  ceit about his own powers. He was told, however,  by his priests that he was no match for two sages,  Nara and Narayana, who were living as ascetics  on the Gandha-madana Mountain. Puffed up  with pride, the king went with his army and chal -  lenged Nara and Narayana. Nara at first tried to  dissuade Dambhodbhava, but the king insisted  Dambhodbhava   2 

=== 페이지 305 ===
on fighting. Nara then took a handful of straws  and, using them as missiles, sent them through  the air, penetrating the eyes, ears, and noses of  the king’s army. Defeated, Dambhodbhava fell at  Nara’s feet and begged him for peace.  See also:   mahabharata, the  Damkina   (Dauke, Dawkina) (rightful wife)  In   Near   Eastern   mythology   (Babylonian-  Assyrian), earth goddess married to Enki, lord  of the good place. She was probably one of the  manifestations of the Great Goddess.  See also:   enki; great goddess  Damon and Pythias   (tamer and discoverer)  (fourth century   b.c.e. )   In Greek legend, two  male lovers, believed to be Pythagorean phi -  losophers. Pythias plotted against the Sicilian  tyrant Dionysius and was condemned to death.  He was allowed to return home first to arrange  his affairs. Damon then offered to take his place  as a hostage, even to suffer death if necessary.  Dionysius was so moved by this offer that he  pardoned the two men.  See also:   dionysius  Danaans   In Greek mythology and legend,  name given to the subjects of King Danaus  of Argos. The name was then applied to all  Greeks. Homer never uses the word   Greek  in his writings but calls the people Achaeans,  Argives, and Danaans. Sometimes Ovid and  Vergil use   Danai   for Greeks.  See also:   argives; ovid  Danaë   (laurel,   bay)   In   Greek   mythology,  mother of the hero Perseus; daughter of King  Acrisius of Argos and Eurydice; sister of Evarete.  Acrisius had been told by an oracle that one day  his daughter would bear a son who would kill  him. Acrisius locked Danaë in a bronze cham -  ber, either in a tower or underground. Zeus,  always ready to sleep with a beautiful young girl,  came to Danaë in the form of a golden shower  Danaë   (Titian)  2    Damkina

=== 페이지 306 ===
(urine) and fathered Perseus. The king, however,  refused to believe his daughter’s son was fathered  by Zeus. He shut Danaë and the boy in a chest  and had it cast into the sea. It floated safely to  the island of Seriphus and was found by Dictys,  a fisherman. He took care of Perseus until the  lad was grown. Polydectes, brother of Dictys  and king of the island, fell in love with Danaë,  who did not return his love. To more easily pur -  sue Danaë, Polydectes sent Perseus to fetch the  head of Medusa, hoping the young man would  be killed. Danaë went into hiding until Perseus  returned with Medusa’s head. In anger at being  sent on the expedition, Perseus showed the head  to Polydectes and his guests at a banquet, and  they all turned to stone. He then took his mother  back to Argos. Homer’s   Iliad   (book 14), Vergil’s  Aeneid   (book 7), and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book  10) all cite the myth. Numerous Renaissance  paintings portray Danaë and the Golden Shower  as an opportunity to be both erotic and learned.  Among the artists who treated the subject are  Titian, Correggio, Tintoretto, and Rembrandt.  Richard Strauss’s opera   Die Liebe der Danaë   also  deals with the myth.  See   also:   aeneid, the;   acrisius; danaë;  eurydice;   iliad, the;   ovid; perseus; zeus  Danaidae   In   Greek   mythology,   the   50  daughters of Danaus who married the 50 sons  of   Aegyptus,   Danaus’s   brother.   Among   the  women were Calaeno, Exato, Eurydice, Glauce,  and Hypermnestra. On their wedding night, 49  of the women killed their husbands. As punish -  ment they were condemned to draw water with  a sieve in Hades. Only one, Hypermnestra,  saved her husband, Lynceus. Aeschylus’s   The  Suppliant Maidens   and Chaucer’s   Legend of Good  Women   draw on the myth.  See also:   aegyptus; chaucer; hades  Danavas   In Hindu mythology, giants who  warred against the gods. They are descendants  of Danu by the sage Kasyapa, and they live in  Patala, the lowest region of the underworld.  See also:   kasyapa  Danbhalah Houé-Do   (Damballa, Dam-bal -  lah, Damballa Wédo, Dan-Gbe)   In Haitian  voodoo, major serpent god, the oldest of the  loas (deified spirits of the dead). His symbol is a  snake, arched in the path of the sun as it travels  across the sky. Sometimes half of the arch is  made up of his female counterpart, Ayida, the  rainbow. He has his origin in the West African  divine python or Rainbow Snake Dan Ayido  Hwedo. He is often identified in Haitian voo -  doo belief with St. Patrick of Christian legend  because the saint is often pictured with a snake  at his feet. He is one of the most powerful  of the loa, and he governs snakes and floods.  He can also afflict people with disease or cure  them.  See also:   ayida; loa; patrick, st.; rainbow  snake  Dance   of   Death   (French:   Danse macabre ;  German:   Totentanz )   A   medieval   series   of  woodcuts or paintings depicting Death claim -  ing his victims. The series portrays Death tak -  ing people from all walks of life, from peasant  to pope. Originally the Dance of Death was  part of public drama and the scenes were for  the most part presented through short four-  line exchanges between Death and a series of  24 occupational classes or groups, such as doc -  tors, clergy, and so forth. The origins may have  Dance of Death  Dance of Death   2 

=== 페이지 307 ===
Daniel   (Gustave Doré)  2  0   Dance of Death

=== 페이지 308 ===
been associated with the Maccaberian Brothers  and their mother (2 Maccabes 6, 7) and the  celebration took place on their day in Paris, in  a cloister for innocent children ( aux Innocents ).  Thus, the name in France was for many years  Chorea Machabaeorum   (French   la danse maca -  bre ).   Other   theories   suggest   that   the   word  makaber   comes from the Arabic   makabïr   and  means “graves.” The theme became popular in  the late 15th century in Germany and spread to  other European countries. In most examples, a  processional and dramatized dances are depict -  ed. A series of woodcuts by Hans Holbein the  Younger was published in 1538. Franz Liszt’s  Totentanz   is a work for piano and orchestra  that uses the medieval sequence “Dies Irae”  as its theme. Saint-Saëns’s symphonic poem  Danse Macabre   is a short work dealing with the  subject. Others who have used the theme for  poetic and dramatic works include Sir Walter  Scott, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Arthur  Rimbaud,   Rainer   Maria   Rilke,   and   August  Strindberg.   An   Ingmar   Bergman   film,   The  Seventh Seal,   also used the motif.  Danh   In Haitian voodoo, a loa (deified spirit of  the dead) who brings good fortune and money;  symbolized by a horned and coiled snake.  See also:   loa  Daniel   (God   is   my   judge)   In   the   Bible,  O.T., one of the Four Major Prophets, the  others being Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel; title  of one of the books of the Bible, placed among  the Hagiographa (sacred writings) in Hebrew  Scriptures but among the prophets in the King  James Version.  Daniel was a captive at the court of Nebu -  chadnezzar and was called Belshazzar. He inter -  preted Nebuchadnezzar’s dream by telling the  king that the great beast of gold, silver, brass,  iron, and clay in the dream represented the  gradual disintegration of the kingdoms to come  after him. Interpreting another dream, Daniel  told Nebuchadnezzar of his future madness.  Through his skill Daniel, as well as his friends  Shadrach,   Meshach,   and   Abednego,   rose   in  power in the court. Because they were Jews, they  refused to worship Nebuchadnezzar’s golden  idol, and Daniel’s three young friends were cast  into the fiery furnace but were not consumed  by the flames. Later Daniel interpreted the  writing on the wall for King Belshazzar, Nebu -  chadnezzar’s   son,   in   which   the   king’s   death  was predicted. The king’s successor, Darius,  gave Daniel a high position in his court. Other  courtiers, jealous of Daniel, persuaded Darius  to have Daniel thrown into the lion’s den, but  God closed the mouth of the lion, and Daniel  remained unharmed. Daniel also appears in the  Old Testament Apocrypha in the tales of Bel  and the Dragon and Susanna. In Christian art  Daniel is seen as the prophet of justice. Daniel  also had visions, which are recounted in the  second half of the Book of Daniel. Rembrandt  painted   The Vision of Daniel.  See also:   belshazzar; ezekiel; isaiah; jer -  emiah; nebuchadnezzar  Danu   In   Celtic   mythology,   mother   god -  dess, sometimes identified with the goddess  Anu (Ana) among the Irish Celts. Danu was  the daughter of King Dagda and ancestress of  the Tuatha de Danann, the people and gods of  the goddess Danu. In British Celtic mythol -  ogy Danu is known as Don, her children as  the Children of Don. When she is identified  with the goddess Anu (scholars do not agree  on whether the two are the same goddess), she  is known as a goddess of prosperity and abun -  dance to whom human sacrifices were made.  The   name   Anu   clings   to   two   breastshaped  mountains near Killarney, Ireland, which are  called the Paps of Anu, indicating her role as a  mother goddess.  See also:   anu; dagda; tuatha de danann  Daphne   (bay, laurel)   In Greek mythology,  a   mountain   nymph,   daughter   of   the   river  god Peneus (or Ladon). She was dedicated  to Artemis, the virgin goddess, and spurned  all men. Apollo fell in love with her, pursued  Daphne   2 

=== 페이지 309 ===
her, and lost her when she cried for help,  and her father transformed her into a laurel.  Embracing   its   trunk,   Apollo   said   its   leaves  would be ever green, and later he wore laurel  leaves as a crown. The myth is told in Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 1), alluded to by Chaucer  and Milton, painted by Giorgione, Pollaivolo,  Poussin, and Tiepolo, and sculpted by Bernini.  Richard Strauss also told the story in his opera  Daphne.  See also:   apollo; artemis; chaucer; ladon;  laurel; nymphs  Daphnis   (laurel)   In   Greek   mythology,  inventor of bucolic poetry; a son of Hermes  by a Sicilian nymph. He was exposed to die  but was saved by shepherds and taught by  Pan to play the flute and sing. Daphnis fell in  love with Piplea (variant names for the naiad  are Lyce, Nais, Nomia, and Xenea), entered  a contest to win her hand, and was about to  lose when Heracles killed his rival, Lityerses.  In a variant myth, Daphnis promises Piplea he  would never fall in love with another woman.  Daphnis broke his promise and was punished  by the Muses with blindness. He died when  he refused to eat after his five hunting dogs  died. He has no connection with the myth of  Daphnis and Chloe.  See also:   daphnis and cloe; hermes; her -  cules; nymphs; pan  Daphnis   and   Chlöe   (laurel   and   bright  green)   In   Greek   and   Latin   mythology,   a  romance   by   Longus   (third   century   c.e. )   of  Daphnis, a young shepherd, and Chlöe, a shep -  herdess. They lived on the island of Lesbos.  The tale is a pastoral story about the maturing  of love. The theme was a favorite in 17th- and  18th-century France and England and inspired  Ravel’s ballet   Daphnis and Chlöe   (1910). Daphnis  is also the name of a Sicilian shepherd in pas -  toral poetry, credited with the invention of the  genre. He was blinded by the Muses and later  died for love. He appears in Theocritus and  in Vergil’s   Eclogues.   Daphnis is also the name  of a shepherd on Mount Ida transformed to  stone by a jealous nymph. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 4) tells the tale.  Darana   In Australian mythology, the rain -  maker who causes rain to fall by singing. Once  when Darana sang, so much rain fell that the  earth was flooded. He placed his throwing stick  in the waters, and they receded. As a result  of the rainfall, flowers and witchetty grubs  bloomed in the desert. Darana picked them,  placed them in bags, and hung them on trees.  Finished with his work, he went on a journey.  But two youths, the Dara-ulu, spotted the bags  and threw their boomerangs at them, causing  them to break and scatter to the winds. Dust  seemed to cover the whole earth and obscure  the sun. When the Muramura spirits saw what  was happening, they came down and killed the  two boys. Darana restored the youths to life,  only to have them killed a second time and  transformed into heart-shaped stones. Heart-  shaped   stones   are   still   used   in   rainmaking  Apollo Pursues Daphne  (after Baldassare Peruzzi)  2  2   Daphnis

=== 페이지 310 ===
ceremonies. It is believed that if these stones  are destroyed the earth would be covered with  red dust.  Dardanus   (burner-up)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, prime ancestor of the Trojans, son of  Zeus   and   Electra;   brother   of   Iasim;   mar -  ried to Chryse and after her death to Bateia  (Arisbe); father of Erichthonius and Ilus and  of Herophile by Neso. He founded Dardania,  which later became Troy, at the foot of Mount  Ida. He is mentioned in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  5) and Homer’s   Iliad   (book 20). The mares of  Dardanus are mares from which Boreas, who  changed himself into a horse, later fathered 12  steeds that could not be overtaken.  See   also:   aeneid, the   boreas; electra;  iliad, the;   zeus  Dares   Phrygius   In   medieval   legend,   an  ancient Trojan priest of the god Hephaestus,  believed to be the author of a popular account  of the Trojan War called   De Excidio Troiae  Historia,   which favors the Trojan viewpoint.  An account credited to Dictys Cretensis called  Ephermiris Belli Trojani,   also popular during the  Middle Ages, gives a pro-Greek account of the  war. Both works were forgeries but were kept  alive much Greek and Trojan mythology dur -  ing the Middle Ages.  See also:   hephaestus; troy  Daughter and the Helper, The   This is a  Tibetan version of the well-known European  tale of the   Kind and Unkind Girl   ( AT   403) . A  young woman who is the daughter of a great  chief is sent with her helper to fetch buckets  of   water   from   the   river.   The   helper   tricks  the unsuspecting girl into putting her golden  bucket in the river to see if it will float like her  own wooden bucket. When the golden bucket  sinks, the evil helper says that the girl’s father  will be so angry that she should not return.  Instead, the helper convinces her that they  should exchange clothes. The daughter goes  to the fields to herd the cattle, leaving pieces  of wool in the tree branches and placing white  and black stones in the pasture. The girl picks  up the stones in the late afternoon, and all of  the cattle then follow her home. Along the  way, the wool has turned to fine linen. The evil  helper then tries to do the same with the wool  and stones, but the cattle scatter, and the wool  does not change to fine linen. A young man  who has witnessed all of this takes the daugh -  ter as his wife, and they live in a palace, with  him sitting on gold and his wife on silver. The  concluding line, as in most Tibetan tales, ends  with the closing formula, “The sun of happi -  ness shone on the mountaintop, and the staff of  misery was washed away in the river.”  David   (well beloved)   (c. 1085–1015   b.c.e. )  In   the   Bible,   O.T.,   second   king   of   Israel,  youngest son of Jesse, of the tribe of Judah,  settled in or near Bethlehem.  David was a handsome youth who was cho -  sen by Yahweh (the Hebrew cult god) to replace  King Saul, with whom Yahweh was displeased.  Samuel the prophet anointed David with his  horn of oil in the midst of his other brothers.  David first won a place at Saul’s court by playing  the harp to ease Saul, who was being tormented  by an evil spirit sent by Yahweh. Later, David  killed the giant Goliath with a single stone from  his slingshot. After cutting off the giant’s head,  David brought it to Saul as a trophy. When Jona -  than, Saul’s son, saw David, he fell in love with  him and defended him when Saul wanted to have  him murdered. David fled and gathered a fol -  lowing of men after Saul himself tried to murder  him with a javelin. David’s wife, Michal, one of  Saul’s daughters, let David out through the win -  dow of their house. She put a pillow of goat’s hair  in the bed and pretended David was sick. Fleeing  to the fields, he met Jonathan, who warned him  he must flee for his life. The two men parted,  promising love and friendship forever. From  then until Saul’s death, David lived the life of an  outlaw. Three times David had the opportunity  to kill Saul but refused. Saul was “the anointed  king of God.” (This passage was used by later  David   2  3

=== 페이지 311 ===
Christian kings as authority against any form of  sedition.) Finally, Saul and his son Jonathan were  killed by the Philistines, and David lamented  their deaths, saying, “I am distressed for thee, my  brother Jonathan: very pleasant hast thou been  unto me: thy love to me was wonderful, passing  the love of woman” (2 Sam. 1:26). David then  recaptured the Ark (in which Yahweh lived) and  brought it to Jerusalem amid shouts of great joy.  David even danced before the Ark, which upset  his wife, Michal, whom he then had locked up,  never sleeping with her again. One of David’s  hero warriors, Uriah the Hittite, had a wife,  Bathsheba, whom David saw bathing from his  rooftop. David lusted after her and committed  adultery with her. He then caused her husband’s  death by sending him into battle and then took  Bathsheba as one of his wives. As punishment  for David’s sin, Yahweh caused the first child of  David and Bathsheba to die. After David’s peni -  tence, a second child was born and was named  Solomon. When David grew old and was no  longer able to have sexual intercourse, a succes -  sor was sought, and after much court intrigue,  Solomon was chosen.  Medieval Christianity took the various inci -  dents   from   David’s   life   and   tied   them   into  Christian belief. David was viewed as a type of  prefiguration of Christ, who descended from  David. Various events in David’s life were given  David Spares Saul’s Life   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  2  4   David

=== 페이지 312 ===
a Christian interpretation. David’s slaying of  the lion and bear (1 Sam. 17:32–37) was seen  as a prefiguration of Christ’s victory over Satan.  David’s slaying of Goliath (1 Sam. 17:38–51) was  a prefiguration of Christ’s temptation in the des -  ert by the devil, and the triumph of David after  Goliath’s defeat (1 Sam. 18:6–7) was viewed as  a prefiguration of Christ’s entry into Jerusalem.  Even the episode of David and Bathsheba (2  Samuel 11:4, 5) was seen as a prefiguration of  Christ (David) and the Church (Bathsheba).  Medieval art usually portrayed David play -  ing the harp. Among some famous works are  Michelangelo’s statue, Caravaggio’s   David with  the Head of Goliath,   Rembrandt’s   David Playing  the Harp for Saul,   and Honegger’s cantata   Le  Roi David,   a popular musical setting of part  of David’s legend. In Islamic legend David is  called Dawvd, the king to whom Allah revealed  the Zabur, or Book of Psalms.  See also:   goliath; jonathan; samuel; saul;  solomon; yahweh  David, St.   (beloved of Yahweh)   (sixth cen-  tury)   In   Christian   legend,   patron   saint   of  Wales. Feast, 1 March.  David was the son of Xantus, prince of  Cereticu (Cardiganshire), but he was brought  up a priest and became an ascetic on the Isle  of Wight. He established a strict rule, founded  some 12 monasteries, and even visited Jerusa -  lem. He was a defender of the Catholic faith  against the monk Pelagius, who denied Origi -  nal Sin and said men could be good without  grace from God. Various legends surround the  saint. One is that when the blind priest who  baptized David was touched with some of the  baptismal water, which David splashed in his  eyes, the priest regained his sight. Another tells  how a hill on which he stood rose so that all  of the crowds could hear him preach. A white  dove is said to have appeared on his shoulder.  He lived on leeks and water and was called “the  waterman.” Geoffrey of Monmouth, in his   His -  tory of the Kings of Britain,   writes that David was  David and Bathsheba  David, St.   2  5

=== 페이지 313 ===
the uncle of King Arthur. David’s name is also  given as Dewi Sant.  See also:   arthur  David of Sassoun   Armenian epic poem com -  piled in the 19th century from oral and written  sources. The epic consists of four cycles.  Sanassar and Baghdassar : Once King Sena -  kerim besieged the city of Jerusalem, but his  troops were killed by angels sent by God to  punish the pagan king. He vowed that if he  could safely escape the city, he would sacrifice  his own sons when he reached his native land.  Senakerim’s wife, who was secretly a Christian,  learned of the vow and warned her two sons,  Sanassar and Baghdassar. They fled the country  disguised as servants. They found a place to stay  with the king of Kraput-Koch. One day, to test  the young men, the king asked them to fight his  soldiers. Accepting the challenge, Sanassar and  Baghdassar defeated the men, and as a result  they were told to leave the land. They would  not leave unless the king granted them land and  workmen to build a city. The wish was granted,  and they built Sassoun. The king also gave his  daughter as a wife to Sanassar.  The   god   of   King   Senakerim,   however,  would not let the king forget his vow of sacrific -  ing his two sons. Each night the god appeared  to the king in his sleep in the form of a goat.  Knowing what the king would do, Baghdassar  decided to return home. When he arrived, his  father took him to the idol of the god to sacri -  fice him. Baghdassar asked Senakerim to show  him how to bow to the god. Complying, the  king knelt down, whereupon the son cut off his  head. Baghdassar was then crowned king.  David of Sassoun : The main hero of the  poem, David of Sassoun, is one of the sons of  King Baghdassar. He is noted for his strength  and for the oaken stick with which he performs  many feats.  David, along with a friend, took care of the  calves. One day the devs, half-demon, half-men  monsters, came and drove away the calves.  David followed their tracks to the entrance of  a cave and paused. He cried out with so loud  a voice that the devs became frightened and  “were as full of fear as is the devil when Christ’s  voice is heard in hell.”  When the leader of the devs heard the  voice, he said: “That is surely David, the son of  Baghdassar. Go receive him with honor, else he  will strike us dead.”  They went out, one by one, and David  struck them with his oak cudgel as they passed,  so that their heads fell off. He then cut off  the ears of all 40 devs and buried them at the  mouth of the cave. When he entered the cave,  he found heaps of gold and silver.  Numerous other exploits of the hero are  narrated. David was killed by one of the ille -  gitimate children of his father, Baghdassar, a  girl who was not a Christian but a Muslim.  Lion-Mher :   This   cycle   tells   of   the   hero  Lion-Mher, who fought single-handed against  the Turks.  Davith-Mher : This cycle contains the tale of  Davith-Mher, who married the queen of Egypt  and had a son, Misra-Malik.  See also:   devs and hambarus; goat  Dayunsi   (beaver’s   grandchild)   In   North  American Indian mythology (Cherokee), the  little water beetle that helped form the earth.  The earth was a great island floating in a sea  of water. It was suspended at each of the four  cardinal points by a cord hanging down from  the sky vault, which was of solid rock. When all  was water, the animals were above, in Galunlati,  beyond the arch. But it was very crowded, and  there was no more room. They wondered what  was below the water. At last Dayunsi offered  to go and see what he could learn. He darted  in every direction over the surface of the water  but could find no firm place to rest. Then he  dived to the bottom and came up with some  soft mud, which began to grow and spread on  every side until it became an island that is now  the earth. It was afterward fastened to the sky  with four cords.  See also:   earth diver  2  6   David of Sassoun

=== 페이지 314 ===
Dazhbog   (Dazbog, Dazdbog)   (giving god)   In  Slavic mythology, sun god, son of Swarog, the sky  god, and brother of Svarogich, the fire god.  According   to   one   myth,   Svarog   became  tired of reigning over the universe and passed  on his power to his sons, Dazhbog and Sva -  rogich. Dazhbog lived in the East, the land of  eternal summer, in a golden palace from which  he emerged every day in a chariot drawn by  white horses that breathed fire. Some accounts  say the chariot was drawn by three horses, oth -  ers say 12. The chariot is described as golden  with diamonds, and the horses as white with  golden manes.  Among the Serbians, Dazhbog was believed  to be a handsome young king who ruled over the  12 kingdoms of the Zodiac and lived with two  beautiful maidens, the Zoyra. One maiden was  the Aurora of the Dawn; the other, the Aurora  of the Evening. In some myths the two sisters  were accompanied by two stars—the morning  star, Zvezda Dennitsa, and the evening star,  Vechernyaya Zvezda—who help the Zorya in  tending the horses of the sun god. In the Russian  epic poem   The Lay of Igor’s Army,   Prince Vladi -  mir and the Russians call themselves the “grand -  children of Dazhbog.” In other Slavic folklore,  however, Dabog or Dajbog, variants of Dazh -  bog, are names applied to a devil-like creature  that opposes God. In 933, when Vladimir mar -  ried Anna and became Christian, the huge statue  of Dazhbog was thrown into the river along with  other pagan deities. Sometimes Dazhbog is iden -  tified with Chors, a Russian sun god.  See also:   aurora;   lay of igor’s army, the ;  svarogich; vladimir, st.  Dazhbog and Lada   In Slavic mythology,  the   sea   god   Czar   Mora   has   nine   beautiful  daughters who live with him in the depths of  the sea. His favorite is Lada, whose beautiful  face and golden tresses fascinate all who see  her. Every day she rows a golden boat with  silver oars on the sea while singing mysterious  and captivating songs. On one occasion, the  sun god Dazhbog is in his chariot drawn by 12  fire-breathing horses crossing the sky. Down  below he hears the beautiful Lada singing, so  he descends on a sunbeam and calls out to  Czar Mora. He asks that Lada be allowed to  accompany him to the Golden Palace in the  east. Czar Mora is so incensed that he sends  sea horses to trample on Dazhbog until he falls  senseless. Dazhbog’s father Svarog, czar of the  sky, hears the cries of his son and places a black  cloud over the sky. In the darkness, Dazhbog  escapes and resolves to win over Lada, even  against her father’s wishes. Together with his  brother Svarogich, they place all kinds of temp -  tations   along   the   shoreline—dresses,   green  slippers, and jewelry. When Lada sees this she  is enticed and lands her boat, only to be caught  by Svarogich and taken home to Dazhbog.  Father Czar Mora is so angry that he sends  storm after storm against the shore and the  cliffs. Dazhbog and Lada soon marry, and she  bears him a son and name him Yarilo.  See also:   dazhbog; svarogich  Deborah   (a bee)   In the Bible, O.T., a Hebrew  prophetess and judge of Israel (Judges 4:4), wife  of Lapidoth. She called Barak to fight against  King Jabin, prophesied success, and accompa -  nied him in the battle against Sisera, captain of  Jabin’s army. Her triumphant song (Judges 5) is  one of the oldest writings in the Bible. Handel’s  oratorio   Deborah   deals with the prophet.  Decius   Mus   (fourth   century   b.c.e. )   In  Roman history and legend, general who sacri -  ficed his life to save his army. Decius dreamed  that to win a battle the general of one army had  to kill himself. To save his army he went into  battle alone and was killed. Livy’s   History of  Rome   (book 8) tells the tale. Rubens left a series  of oil sketches of the legend.  See also:   livy  Deert   In Australian mythology, the moon  god, who punished animals with death. Only  he, Deert, would be able to die and return to  life again.  Deert   2 

=== 페이지 315 ===
Deianira   In Greek mythology, second wife  of Heracles; daughter of Dionysus (or Oeneus)  and Althaea; half sister of Gorge, Meleager,  and Toxeus; mother of Ctesippus, Hyllus, and  Macaria. She accidentally killed Heracles when  she sent him, by the centaur Nessus, a garment  soaked in poisoned blood, which she believed  would renew Heracles’ love for her. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 9) and Chaucer’s “The  Monk’s Tale,” part of   The Canterbury Tales,   all  refer to the myth.  See   also:   centaurs; chaucer; dionysus;  heracles; ovid  Deidamia   (taker of spoil)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, mistress of Achilles; daughter of Lycomedes,  king   of   Scyros;   mother   of   Neoptolemus  (Pyrrhus). She was seduced by Achilles when  he hid on the island of Scyros disguised as a  woman. A second Deidamia was the daugh -  ter   of   Bellerophon   and   Philonoe;   sister   of  Hippolochus, Isander, and Laodameia; married  to Evander; and mother of Dyna, Pallantia,  Pallas, Roma, and Sarpedon II. A third bear -  ing the name was a daughter of Amyntor and  Cleobule; sister of Crantor and Phoenix.  See   also:   achilles;   evander;   pallas;  sarpedon  Deino   (terrible)   In Greek mythology, daugh -  ter   of   Phorcys   and   Ceto;   one   of   the   three  Graeae—the others being Enyo and Pephredo—  who were guardians of the Gorgons. They had  one eye and one tooth among the three of them.  See also:   graeae; gorgons  Deirdre   (Deidrie, Deidra, Deidre, Dierdrie)  (diminutive of   der,   daughter)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, a great heroine. The many retellings of the  story have made her one of the best-known fig -  ures from Celtic mythology around the world.  Felim, a lord of Ulster, invited King Conor  (Conchuber) to a feast. During the festivities  a messenger brought word of the birth of a  daughter to Felim. Then Cathbad, the king’s  Druid, said: “The infant shall be fairest among  the women of Erin and shall wed a king, but  because of her, death and ruin shall come on  the prince of Ulster.”  King Conor sought to avert the doom by  sending the child, called Deirdre, with her nurse,  Lavarcam, to a solitary place in the wood. Here  she was visited by the king, who intended to wed  her when she was of marriageable age. The girl  saw no other except the Druid, Cathbad.  One winter’s day, however, near the bridal  day, Deirdre saw upon the white snow the blood  of a newly slain calf and a raven lapping it. She  told her nurse that she wished to wed a man  with hair as black as the raven’s wing, a cheek  as red as the calf’s blood, and skin as white as  the snow. Her description fit Naisi (Naois), a  member of the Red, or Ulster, branch of King  Conor’s household. The nurse then, upon the  pleading of Deirdre, took the girl to meet  Naisi. Deirdre’s beauty so overwhelmed Naisi  that he fled with her to Scotland. Naisi then  took service with the king of the Picts. How -  ever, after seeing Deirdre, the king wanted her  for himself. Therefore, Deirdre, Naisi, his two  brothers, Arden and Allen, and the nurse fled  to shelter in Glen Etive.  Years passed, and King Conor, promising  not to avenge the wrong done to him, invited  Naisi,   his   brothers,   and   Deirdre   to   return.  With misgivings, Deirdre came. Naisi and his  two brothers were killed by Owen, who cut off  their heads. Deirdre was then taken by the king  to live at Emain Macha. A year passed, and the  king asked Deirdre what she hated most.  “Thou thyself and Owen,” she replied. So  King Conor sent Deirdre to Owen for a year,  but on the way she threw herself from the  chariot against a rock and died.  In one variant of the myth, Deirdre sees the  bodies of the three dead brothers being buried.  She sits on the edge of the grave, constantly ask -  ing the grave diggers to dig the pit wide and free.  When the bodies are put in the grave, she says:  Come over hither, Naisi, my love,  Let Arden close to Allen lie;  2    Deianira

=== 페이지 316 ===
If the dead had any sense to feel,  Ye would have made a place for Deirdre.  The men do as she asks them. She then jumps  into the grave and dies.  Two great Irish playwrights took up the  myth of Deirdre. William Butler Yeats wrote  a tragedy,   Deirdre,   about the last day in the  life of the lovers, and John Millington Synge  wrote   Deirdre of the Sorrows.   Black, white, and  red symbolism is a well-known motif in folk  literature.  See also:   druids; motif  Dekanawida   (two   river   currents   flowing  together)   (16th century)   In North American  Indian history and legend, hero, one of the  founders   of   the   Iroquois   Confederacy   with  Hiawatha,   credited   with   supernatural   pow -  ers. According to legend he was born of a  virgin mother. Warned before his birth that  he would bring ruin upon her people, the  Hurons, Dekanawida’s mother tried to drown  her child. She threw the child through a hole  in the ice three times, but the morning after  each attempt, she found him lying next to her,  safe and sound. Dekanawida grew to manhood  quickly and left home. Before he left, he placed  an otter skin on the wall, hanging by its tail. He  told his mother that if he died a violent death  the skin would vomit blood.  Hiawatha enlisted Dekanawida’s help in  his   plan   for   the   unity   of   Indian   nations,  known as the “League of the Long House,”  and the two worked until it was achieved. In  some accounts Dekanawida is credited with  the idea and became the confederacy’s law-  giver.  See also:   hiawatha  Delilah   (languishing)   In the Bible, O.T., a  Philistine woman who seduced Samson into  revealing the secret of his strength, which lay  in his hair. She then cut his hair so that he  could be captured by the Philistines (Judges  16). Delilah appears in Rembrandt’s painting of  Samson as well as in Saint-Saëns’ opera   Samson  et Dalila.  See also:   samson  Delos   (clear)   In Greek legend, a small island  in the Cyclades, where Apollo and Artemis  were born on Mount Cynthos. Poseidon raised  it from the sea as a place of refuge for their  mother, Leto, to escape the wrath of Hera,  the   ever-jealous   wife   of   Zeus.   Referring   to  their birthplace, Apollo was sometimes called  Delius, and Artemis was called Delia. Delos’s  king was Anius.  See   also:   anius; apollo; artemis; hera;  leto; poseidon; zeus  Delphi   (from   Delphus,   a   son   of   Apollo;  dolphin?)   In Greek history and mythology, a  town of Phocis at the foot of Mount Parnassus.  Delphi was famous for its oracle and temple to  Apollo. Delphi was believed to be the center of  the earth. The   omphalos   (navel stone) was kept  there. At Apollo’s temple was the inscription  “know thyself and honor the god” which came to  mean seek self-understanding, though originally  it meant: “Know that I, Apollo, am immortal,  and you are mortal and must die.” According to  Samson and Delilah  Delphi   2 

=== 페이지 317 ===
Greek myth, Apollo killed Python, the Chthonic  deity who guarded the site, and then set up a  shrine to himself. The name Pytho is popu -  larly derived from   pythein,   “to rot,” but was more  likely itself derived from the process of acquir -  ing information from the oracle, as seen in the  verb   pynthanein,   “to discover by inquiry.” The  Delphic oracle was the most authoritative in the  ancient Mediterranean world. It is believed that  the various buildings of Delphi were destroyed  by Alaric and the Goths in 396   c.e.  The   Homeric   Hymn   to   Apollo   (a   work  ascribed to Homer but not by him) describes  the contest between Apollo and Python. Paus -  anias’s   Description of Greece   (book 10) describes  the site. Often in English poetry Delphi is  confused with Delos, the smallest island of the  Cyclades, sacred to Apollo, who was born there  along with his sister Artemis. Milton’s   Ode on  the   Morning   of   Christ’s   Nativity   compounds  Delphi and Delos into Delphos. This was a  common mistake of writers of the Middle Ages  and passed on to later writers.  See   also:   apollo;   artemis;   chthonian  gods; delos; homer; omphale; pausanias  Dem Chog   In Tibetan Buddhism, a tute -  lary deity, the chief of happiness, also known  as Samvara. In general, the terms devil and  demon are products of early Western misun -  derstanding of the wrathful aspect of Tibetan  deities, an obverse of their pacific aspect.  Demeter   (barley?-mother)   In Greek myth -  ology, Great Mother goddess, one of the 12  Olympian   deities,   daughter   of   Cronus   and  Rhea; mother of Plutus by Iasim and mother of  Persephone by her brother Zeus; called Ceres  by the Romans. Demeter was worshipped as  provider of harvest and fertility. Her daughter  Persephone was raped by Hades and brought  to the underworld as his bride. Demeter, not  knowing Persephone’s fate, went in search of  her.   She   searched   for   nine   days   before   she  was   told   by   Helius,   the   all-seeing   sun   god,  that Hades had abducted Persephone. Furious  with Zeus for allowing the rape, Demeter, dis -  guised as an old woman, left Olympus to seek  Persephone. When she arrived at Eleusis, she  was welcomed by Queen Metanira and King  Celeus and tended their son Demophon. One  night she held the child over a fire in order to  give him immortality but was surprised in the  act by the king. She then revealed her identity  and commanded King Celeus to build a temple  in her honor. In the meantime, Zeus sent Iris to  ask Demeter to return, but she refused. Finally,  Zeus sent Hermes to the underworld to fetch  Persephone, but already the girl had eaten four  pomegranate seeds (fruit of the underworld),  so she was allowed to spend only eight months  of the year in the upper world. Returning to  Olympus, Demeter left the gift of corn and the  holy mysteries at Eleusis with King Celeus. She  sent Triptolemus, Celeus’s son, around the world  to spread the knowledge of agriculture and cult.  Fall and winter came to represent the time of  the year when Demeter, grief-stricken over the  Demeter (Ceres)  300   Dem Chog

=== 페이지 318 ===
absence of her daughter, let plant life wither. The  mysteries of Eleusis were dedicated to Demeter.  Demeter appears in Hesiod, the Homeric  Hymn to Demeter, Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1),  and Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 4) and   Metamorphoses  (book 5). Among English poets, Tennyson’s  “Demeter and Persephone” is best known, but  Pope,   Spenser,   Shakespeare,   Milton,   Keats,  Shelley, Arnold, and Swinburne all cite the  goddess, often under her Latin name, Ceres.  In Greek and Roman art, Demeter was  always portrayed as a mature, clothed woman,  often drawn in her chariot by serpents. The  honeycomb, fruit, cow, and sow were sacred  to her. Other attributes were poppies, symbol -  izing sleep and death; ears of corn; wheat; a  basket of fruit; a torch; or a serpent shedding  its skin, symbol of rebirth.  See also:   aeneid, the;   demophon; great  goddess; hades; iris; ovid; persephone; plu -  tus; zeus  Demophon   (voice of the people)   In Greek  mythology, joint king of Melos; son of Theseus  and Phaedra or of Theseus’s mistress, Antiope;  half   brother   or   brother   of   Acamas;   and   in  some accounts father of Munitus by Laodice,  a daughter of King Priam. Demophon was one  of the Greeks hidden in the wooden horse, and  he helped steal the Palladium from Troy. After  Troy’s fall he fell in love with Laodice, but on  the way home from Troy he visited Thrace and  fell in love with Phyllis, daughter of the king  of Thrace. When he deserted her to live in  Athens, she either hanged herself or was turned  into an almond tree by Athena. Ovid’s   Heroides  (book 2) and Chaucer’s   Legend of Good Women  deal with her sad fate.  See also:   antiope;   athena;   chaucer;   laodice;  ovid; phaedra; phyllis; priam; theseus  Dendan   In Arabic legend, a monstrous fish  that dies when it eats human flesh or hears  a   human   voice.   In   the   tale   “Abdallah   the  Fisherman and Abdallah the Merman” in   The  Thousand and One Nights   (nights 940–946), the  fat from a dendan is made into an ointment  to cover Abdallah the Fisherman’s body so  he can live under the water when he visits his  friend Abdallah the Merman. While they are  undersea, a black dendan, bigger than a camel,  comes near Abdallah the Fisherman, whose  immediate shout in his human voice causes the  monstrous fish to die instantly.  See also:   thousand and one nights, the  Deng   In   African   mythology   (Dinka   of  Eastern Sudan), sky god, ancestor of the Dinka.  Deng, the son of god, mediates between man  and the universal spirit. The Dinka believe  that in the beginning the sky was very low, so  low that man had to be extremely careful when  Deng   30   Priestess of Demeter

=== 페이지 319 ===
hoeing or pounding grain so as not to hit the  sky. One day the greedy woman Abuk pounded  more grain than she was allotted, using an  especially long pestle. Deng was so angered  by this that he cursed mankind, saying people  would have to work harder for the fruits of the  earth and in the end would also have to die.  Lightning is Deng’s club, and rain and birth  are manifestations of his presence. If one is  struck by lightning, one is not to be mourned  because it is believed that Deng has taken that  person directly to himself.  See also:   abuk and garang; aiwel  Denis of France, St.   (lame god, Dionysos)  (third century?)   In Christian legend, patron  saint   of   Paris,   along   with   St.   Geneviève.  Invoked against frenzy, headache, and strife.  Feast, 9 October.  St. Denis of France is often confused with  Dionysius the Areopagite, a follower of St.  Paul, and Pseudo-Dionysius, a mystical writer  whose dates are unknown. His legend therefore  combines three personalities into one.  Dionysius   was   an   Athenian   philosopher  who went to study astrology in Egypt. While  he was at Heiliopolis, Christ was crucified, and  he witnessed the darkness over the face of the  land for three hours. He went to inquire why  this had happened and eventually was con -  verted to Christianity by St. Paul. (The time  sequence in the legend makes no actual sense.)  According to legend, he was present at the  death of the Virgin Mary in Jerusalem as well as  the martyrdom of St. Paul in Rome.  From Rome he was sent by Pope Clement  to preach the gospel in France. He left with  two deacons, Rusticus and Eleutherius. When  he arrived in France, his name was changed to  Denis. (Here again the legend tries to connect  the three men.) After preaching for some time  and winning many converts he was arrested  along with his two deacons. At the place of exe -  cution all three were beheaded, but St. Denis  took his severed head and walked all the way to  Montmartre (Mount of Martyrs). Angels sang  as the saint held his head. Later he was buried  by St. Geneviève.  In Christian art he is portrayed as a bishop  holding his severed head in his hand.  See also:   alban, st.; cheron, st.; crispin  and crispinian, sts.; paul, st.; virgin mary  Deohako   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy   (Seneca),   three   sisters,   spirits   of   corn,  beans, and squash. They all lived on one hill.  One day Onatah, the corn spirit, left in search  of moisture but was attacked by the evil spirit  Haghwehdaetgah, who took her to the under -  ground. He then sent winds to destroy the two  remaining sisters, who also fled. Finally, the  sun saved Onatah, but she must now stand in  the field, through rain and drought, never to  leave again.  Dervish and the King, The   Moral fable  by the Persian mystic poet Sadi, in   The Gulistan  (chapter 1, story 28).  A solitary dervish (holy man) was sitting in a  corner of the desert when a king passed by, but  he took no notice of the king. The king became  angry, saying to his prime minister, “This tribe  of rag weavers resembles beasts.”  The prime minister went to the dervish.  “The king has passed near you,” he told the  dervish. “Why haven’t you shown him homage  and respect?”  “Tell the king,” the dervish replied, “to look  for homage from a man who expects to benefit  from him. Kings exist for protecting subjects.  Subjects do not exist for obeying kings.”  See also:   gulistan, the  Deucalion and Pyrrha   (new-wine sailor and  fiery   red)   In   Greek   mythology,   hero   and  heroine of the Deluge, or Flood. Deucalion  was the son of Prometheus and Hesione; mar -  ried   Pyrrha;   father   of   Amphictyon,   Hellen,  Pandora,   Protogeneia,   and   Thyia.   Hellen  was the ancestor of the Hellenes, or Greeks.  Deucalion and his wife, Pyrrha, survived the  world flood. They repeopled the earth by cast -  302   Denis of France, St.

=== 페이지 320 ===
ing stones behind them that were transformed  into people. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 1) tells  the myth. Reference is made to the myth in  Giles Fletcher’s   Christs Victorie and Triumph,  Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 11), and Spenser’s  Faerie Queene   (book 5).  See   also:   amphictyon;   hesione;   ovid;  pandora  Deva   In   Hindu   and   Buddhist   mythology,  a term for a deity or divine being, from the  Sanskrit root   div,   to shine. They are 33 in num -  ber, 11 for each of three worlds.  Devadasi   (female   slaves   of   the   gods)   In  Hinduism,   dancers   and   courtesans   who   are  connected with various ceremonies devoted to  images of the gods, such as singing, dancing  before the god when he is carried in proces -  sion, and purifying the temple floor with cow  dung and water. They are considered married  to the god. Every temple, based on its size, had  eight or more dancers.  Devadatta   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist  legend, cousin of the Buddha, who at first was  converted by the Buddha but later became  his archrival. Devadatta attempted to kill the  Buddha numerous times.  See also:   buddha, the  devak   In Hindu folklore, a guardian deity  or spirit, such as an animal, tree, or implement  of trade. Those people having the same   devak  cannot marry, possibly suggesting that once the  devak   was a totem of a clan.  Devala   In Hindu mythology, the personi -  fication of music as a female. The name also  is   used   for   several   sages   who,   legend   says,  composed hymns for the Rig-Veda, the ancient  collection of hymns to the gods.  See also:   rig-veda  devarshis   In Hinduism, sages or holy men  who have attained perfection on earth and have  been exalted to demigods. They live in the  region of the gods.  Devil in the Dancehall, The   This urban  legend was common as a Mexican and Spanish-  American legend, but it has now been updated  as the devil in a disco. A dashing cowboy  ( vaquero ) meets a young woman in a bar, but  she is playing hard to get. When the   señorita  notices that her dance partner has chicken feet,  a sign of the Devil, she lets out a scream, cry -  ing: “¡ Sus pies ! ¡ Sus Pies !” (His feet! His feet!)  before she faints. Once the Devil is revealed, he  disappears into the men’s restroom and leaves  behind a cloud of smoke that smells of sulfur.  See also:   devil; urban legend  devils   Demons and evil spirits, which abound  in   medieval   Jewish,   Christian,   and   Islamic  mythology.  In the Hebrew Old Testament, Satan is not  the devil. He is the “adversary,” part of God’s  heavenly host. This is shown in the Book of  Job. Satan tempts Job, destroying his family and  goods, but only with the permission of God.  When Job cries out for justice, he does not con -  demn Satan, but God himself (Job 9:21–24). As  Judaism developed, coming into contact with  many pagan cults, Satan took on more of the  attributes we know as belonging to the devil.  By the time of the New Testament, Satan was  generally regarded as an evil demon or ruler  of demons (Matt. 12:24–28). He not only con -  trols the body but also has power over spiritual  nature, being called “prince of the world” (John  16:11) and even “god of the world” (2 Cor. 4:4).  All of these New Testament quotes reflect the  Jewish belief of that time.  In Christianity the belief in the corporeal  existence of the devil assumed its greatest force  during the Middle Ages. St. Thomas Aquinas  believed in devils, witches, incubi, and succubi.  When he wrote a commentary on the Book of  Job, he identified the monster Behemoth as  the devil and concluded that the devil could  have intercourse with humans. When the devil  devils   303

=== 페이지 321 ===
assumed a female form (succubus), he seduced  men. When he assumed a male form (incubus),  he impregnated women. The result of this  sexual union produced, according to Aquinas, a  human being, though the child would be more  cunning than children of an ordinary human  couple.  Aquinas’s many explanations of Christian  doctrines find their full expression in Dante’s  The Divine Comedy.   In this massive work the  entire universe is ordered according to Scho -  lastic teaching. The poem, divided into three  sections—Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven—con -  tains   many   descriptions   of   demons   and,   of  course, Satan. Dante describes the three-faced  Satan as a parody of the Christian Trinity and  portrays him chewing on three sinners: Judas  Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus, and Brutus and  Cassius, who betrayed Julius Caesar. Dante  leaves out Pontius Pilate because, to placate the  Roman Empire, Christianity forgave Pilate’s  part in the murder of Jesus. In fact, one branch  of the Eastern Orthodox church lists Pilate  among its saints.  The medieval belief in demons passed on to  the Protestant Reformation. Luther, like Aqui -  nas, believed in the devil’s evil power to assist  wizards and witches. Following St. Augustine’s  authority, Luther had come to believe in incubi  and succubi, since Satan in the form of a hand -  some man loves to decoy young girls. Luther  also believed in changelings, children of the  devil who replace human children.  Islam, which is in part based on Jewish and  Christian beliefs, calls Satan Iblis. He is men -  tioned in the Koran, as are the djinn (plural of  genie), his offspring.  Djinn are divided into different categories,  although Islamic folklore is not always clear in  its distinctions, many names being just differ -  ent words for a demonic being. The orders are  jann, the lowest and weakest; the djinn proper,  who often appear in animal form; the shaitan or  sayatin; ifrits; and the marida, djinn of the most  powerful class. In all there are some 40 troops  of 600,000 djinn, according to one count.  When King Solomon (who often appears  in Islamic legend) first saw the djinn, he was  horrified at how ugly they were. He used his  magic ring to gain mastery over them, forcing  them to help build his great temple. A mod -  ern Islamic tale tells of a family so tormented  by djinn, which appeared in various animal  shapes, that the family went into the desert,  the home of the djinn, and killed all of the ani -  mals they could capture. This so reduced the  population of djinn that Allah (who wanted  to maintain a balance in his order of nature)  had to intervene, and a truce was made to  ensure that the djinn would not be wiped out  entirely.  The Koran (sura 6) tells that the djinn “in  their ignorance” believed Allah had “sons and  daughters.” Some, however, were later con -  verted by Muhammad to Islam and are diligent  followers of its rites. These djinn often appear  as “household serpents” who protect the fam -  ily, much in the manner of the   genii   in Roman  mythology.  The shaitans are a more dangerous breed of  spirit than the djinn proper. Allah created al-  Shaitan, perhaps another name for Iblis, who  then produced eggs from which other demons  were hatched. In a variant legend, Allah created  not only al-Shaitan, but a wife, who produced  three eggs. When hatched, the children were  all ugly, having hoofs instead of feet. Shaitans  are even uglier in their eating habits. They like  excrement and other dirt and waste and prefer  the shade to sunlight. It is believed that every  man has a personal shaitan or demon, just as  he has a personal guardian angel. Sometimes  the shaitan is considered the muse of poetic  inspiration.  Ifrits, or afrits, are an even more danger -  ous group than the shaitans. Originally the  word may have meant one who overcomes an  antagonist and rolls him in the dust. In time the  term was applied to a very powerful and always  malicious djinn. The Koran (sura 27) makes  brief mention of the spirit as an “ifrit, one of  the djinn,” and Islamic legend has added to  304   devils

=== 페이지 322 ===
this brief Koranic mention. In Egypt, ifrit has  come to mean the ghost of a murdered man or  one who died a violent death. Yet the female  version of the ifrit, the ifriteh mentioned in   The  Thousand and One Nights,   is a benevolent djinn.  In fact, in The Second Old Man’s Story (night  2) a pious woman is turned into an ifriteh and  carries the hero to an island to save his life. In  the morning she returns and says: “I have paid  thee my debt, for it is I who bore thee up out of  the sea and saved thee from death, by permis -  sion of Allah. Know that I am of the djinn who  believe in Allah and his Prophet.”  Of the other demons in Arabic and Islamic  folklore, perhaps the most dreaded is the Ahl-  at-Tral, who live below the Sahara desert and  appear as whirling sandstorms, drying up the  wells before caravans arrive.  There are numerous variant spellings of  the demons in Islamic mythology. Djinn some -  times appears as jinn and jinniyeh (feminine).  Ifrit is also spelled efreet, alfrit, afrit and for the  female, ifriteh and afriteh.  See also:   ahl-at-tral; allah; augustine,  st.; job; brutus; iblis; ifrits; judas iscar -  iot; koran, the; mohammad; pilate, pontius;  satan; shaitan; solomon; thomas of acqui -  nas, st.;   thousand and one nights  Devi or Mahadeve   (the goddess and the  great goddess)   In Hindu mythology, the great  goddess,   sometimes   regarded   as   the   wife   of  Shiva. She has both a gentle and a fierce nature.  Devi is one of the most ancient deities wor -  shipped in present-day Hinduism. Traces of her  worship date back to prehistoric times. She was  taken into the Hindu pantheon and wedded to  the god Shiva, being made his   shakti,   or female  energy. Among the many roles she assumes in  Hindu mythology are the following:  Sati   (the good woman), daughter of Daksha.  She married the god Shiva, even though her  father opposed the match. To prove her love for  Shiva she burned herself alive at Jwala-mukhi  (mouth of fire), a volcano in the lower Hima -  layas, north of Punjab. Today the place is a pil -  grimage site. When Shiva embraced the body of  his wife, it took the god Vishnu to cut her out of  Shiva’s hold. Fifty pieces of her bodily remains  were then scattered, each becoming a place of  worship for the   yoni   (womb), the female organ,  along with Shiva’s   linga   (phallus).  Parvati   (the   mountain   girl).   Devi   is   the  constant companion and loving wife of Shiva,  often engaging in lovemaking. On one occa -  sion Shiva reproached Parvati for the darkness  of her skin. She was so upset by the reproach  that she went to live alone in the forest, where  she performed austerities. The god Brahma  said he would grant her any wish as reward  for her austerities. Parvati asked that her com -  plexion be golden. She was then called Gauri  (yellow, or brilliant) and became regarded as  the goddess of crops (the harvest bride) or Uma  (mother), the golden goddess, personification  of light and beauty; as Sandhya (joint) she is  viewed as twilight personified. In some texts  Sandhya is believed to be the daughter of the  god Brahma.  Devi or Mahadeve   305  Devi (Kali)

=== 페이지 323 ===
Jaganmata   (the mother of the world), the  goddess as the great mother. This name recalls  early worship of her.  Durga   (the inaccessible), one of the most  popular manifestations of the goddess. The  title was given her when she fought the great  buffalo demon, Mahisha. The demon, having  performed penance, obtained great power and  took control of the three worlds, dethroning  Indra as well as sending the other gods fleeing  to Brahma for help.  At a meeting of the gods, their united ener -  gies produced a woman, Durga, “more danger -  ous than all the gods and demons.” (In a variant  account Durga already existed as the wife of  Shiva and came to the aid of the gods.) Durga  now set out to destroy the buffalo demon. At  first she sent Kalaratri (dark night), a female  whose   beauty   bewitched   the   three   worlds.  Mahisha, even though moved by her charms,  came after Kalaratri, who, of course, was a form  of Durga, but “she took the unassailable form  of fire.” When the demon in the form of a buf -  falo saw her standing before him, blazing with  her great magic power of illusion, he made  himself as large as Mount Meru. He sent an  army, but it was reduced to ashes by the fire.  Mahisha then sent 30,000 giants, and they  made Kalaratri rush to Durga (the goddess can  be in two places at the same time as well as be  two beings). The demon’s troops hurled arrows  as thick as raindrops in a storm at Durga as she  sat on Mount Vindhya. In return Durga threw  weapons that carried away the arms of many of  the giants. Mahisha then hurled a flaming dart  at the goddess, which she turned aside. He sent  another, and she stopped it by 100 arrows. His  next arrow was aimed at Durga’s heart, but this  was also stopped. At last the two came together,  and Durga seized Mahisha, setting her foot on  his chest. However, he managed to disengage  himself and renew the battle.  The battle continued for some time, until  Durga pierced Mahisha with her trident. He  reeled to and fro and again assumed his original  form, that of a giant with 1,000 arms, a weapon  in each. He approached Durga, who seized him  by his arms and carried him through the air.  She then threw him to the ground. Seeing that  the fall did not kill him, she pierced him in the  chest with an arrow. Blood began to flow from  his mouth, and he died.  In Indian art Durga is often portrayed as  a golden-colored woman with 10 arms, called  Dashabhuja (ten-armed). In one hand she often  holds a spear, which is piercing Mahisha. With  another hand she holds the tail of a serpent,  with another the hair of Mahisha, whose chest  the snake is biting. Her other hands are filled  with weapons, and a lion, tiger, leopard, or  other large cat leans against her right leg.  Durga’s battle with Mahisha is but one of  many fought by the goddess against various  demons. Often she gained the title or name  of the demon because of her encounter with  him. One epic myth describes such an incident:  “From the forehead of the goddess contracted  with wrathful frowns, sprang swiftly forth a  goddess of black and formidable aspect, armed  with a scimitar and noose, robed in the hide  of an elephant, dry and withered and hideous,  with yawning mouth, and lolling tongue, and  bloodshot eyes, and filling the regions with  shouts.” When the goddess in this form killed  the   two   demons   Chandra   and   Munda,   she  returned to herself and was called by a contrac -  tion of the two demon’s names, Chamunda.  Devi   is   also   known   as   Kali   (the   black  woman). Devi was sent to earth to destroy a  host of demons, but in her rampage of death  and destruction she also killed men and women.  The gods, horrified and fearing that if she was  not stopped all life would cease, pleaded with  her but to no avail. Finally Shiva, her husband,  threw himself down amid the bodies of the  dead. When Kali realized she was trampling  on her husband, she regained her senses. As a  sign of shame she stuck out her tongue. Kali is  often portrayed in this manner in Indian art.  Another account says that she fought a demon  who could restore himself from a drop of blood  that hit the ground; Kali therefore stuck out  306   Devi or Mahadeve

=== 페이지 324 ===
her tongue from her many heads to lick up the  blood.  Other attributes of Kali are fanged teeth,  matted hair, red eyes, and four eyes. In two  arms she holds the symbols of death: a noose to  strangle her victims and a hook to drag them. In  her other hands she holds the symbols of life, a  prayer book and prayer beads. Kali also wears a  necklace of skulls and corpse earrings and is sur -  rounded by serpents, showing her mastery over  the male, according to some interpretations.  Calcutta,   India,   receives   its   name   from  Kalighat (the steps of Kali), where her wor -  shippers descend into the sacred Ganges. In  earlier times human sacrifices were made to  the goddess. Today black goats are sacrificed to  her. Thugs (a Hindi word that has passed into  English) robbed and strangled their victims  before sacrificing them to the goddess.  See also:   brahma; chandra; daksha; lin -  gam; shiva; uma  Devs and Hambarus   In Armenian mythol -  ogy and folklore, demonic spirits. The Devs  are male and female spirits, often appearing as  humans, such as old women, or in animal guise.  One Armenian folktale, “The Sheep Brother,”  tells how a girl encountered a Dev. She stepped  into a cavern and saw a thousand-year-old Dev  lying in a corner.  The Dev said, “Neither the feathered birds  nor the crawling serpent can make their way  in here; how then hast thou, maiden, dared to  enter?”  The girl thought quickly and said, “For love  of you I came here, dear grandmother.”  The Dev then took a liking to the girl and  rewarded her with golden hair and a golden  dress.  The Hambarus, cousins to the Devs, are  spirits who live in desert places and also reward  or punish at will. For a passage in Isaiah (13:21)  in which the King James Version of the Bible  reads “satyrs” and “owls,” the Armenian trans -  lation uses “Hambarus” and “Devs.”  See also:   owl; satyrs  Dhammacakka   In Buddhism, the Wheel of  the Dharma, which was set into motion when  the Buddha preached his first sermon in the  Deer Park near Benares.  See also:   buddha, the; dharma  Dhammapada,   The   (verses on Dhamma)  A Buddhist sacred book in 26 divisions, con -  sisting of 423 verses attributed to the Buddha.  Each aphorism is encapsulated in a legendary  incident, which is told in the   Dhammapadattha-  katha   (Dhammapada commentary) collected in  the fifth century   c.e.   Another version exists in  Chinese, translated from the Sanskrit, and a  partial manuscript of still another version, in  Gandhari (a language related to Sanskrit), has  been recovered.  See also:   buddha, the  Dhanvantari   (moving in a curve)   In Hindu  mythology, physician of the gods who was pro -  duced at the Churning of the Ocean when the  gods and demons fought for the Amrita, the  water of life.  See also:   amrita; churning of the ocean  Dharma   (Dhamma)   Term   in   Hindu   and  Buddhist works ( Dharma   in Sanskrit,   Dhamma  in   Pali),   variously   translated   as   truth,   law,  religion,   doctrine,   righteousness,   virtue,   or  force-factor.   For   Buddhism   it   often   means  the doctrine of the Buddha as found in the  sacred writings and a momentary, irreducible  component of the perceived universe. It is the  Buddhist term for Buddhism.  Dharmapala   (Dharma protector)   In Maha-  yana   Buddhism,   the   Eight   Terrible   Ones,  defenders   of   the   Dharma,   who   wage   war  against   demons   and   enemies   of   Buddhism.  They are Lha-mo, a female goddess, portrayed  on a mule with a sword and mace; Ts’angs-pa  Dkar-po, often portrayed on a white horse,  with a sword, and sometimes carrying a ban -  ner; Beg-Ts’e, god of war and protector of  horses, carrying a sword with a shrimp-shaped  Dharmapala   30 

=== 페이지 325 ===
handle and wearing Mongolian boots; Yama,  the Hindu god of the dead, who is also found  among the Buddhists; Kubera, god of wealth  and guardian of the North, borrowed from  Hindu mythology, among whose symbols are a  mongoose vomiting jewels, a trident, a banner,  and an elephant or lion; Mahakala, the great  black one, often portrayed with a trident, pos -  sibly derived from the Greek god Poseidon or  a variant of Kubera or Shiva; Hayagriva, the  horse-necked one, also derived from Hindu  mythology, portrayed with a bull’s head and his  symbols, a chopper and skull cap.  See   also:   dharma; haya-griva; kubera;  mahayana; poseidon; shiva  Dhyani-Bodhisattvas   In   Mahayana  Bu d dhism,   five   Bodhisattvas   emanat -  ing   from   the   five   Dhyani-Buddhas.   They  are   Samantabhadra,   Vajrapani,   Ratnapani,  Avalokiteshvara, and Vishvapani. Also, there  are eight Bodhisattvas who act as protec -  tors.   They   are   Samantabhadra,   Vajrapani,  Avalokiteshvara,   Manjushri,   Maitreya,  Akashagarbha, Kshitigarbha, and Sarvaniva  ranavishkambhin.  See   also:   avalokiteshvara; bodhisattva;  dhyani-buddhas; mahayana; maitreya; man -  jushri; ratnapani; samantabhadra; vajrapani  Dhyani-Buddhas   (Buddhas   emanated   by  meditation)   In   Mahayana   Buddhism,   five  Buddhas   who   came   from   Adi-Buddha,   the  primordial   Buddha.   They   are   Vairocana,  Akshobhya,   Ratnasambhava,   Amitabha,   and  Amoghasiddhi. They have in turn five Dhyani-  Bodhisattvas who are Samantabhadra, Vajrapani,  Ratnapani, Avalokitesvara, and Vishvapani.  See   also:   adi-buddha; akshobhya; ami -  tabha;   dhyani-bodhisattvas;   mahayana;  ratnapani;   samantabhadra;   vajrapani;  vishvapani  Diab   In Haitian voodoo, a male demon who  controls sexual passions in men. He is symbol -  ized by a penis.  Diablesse   In   Haitian   voodoo,   a   female  demon who controls sexual passions in women.  She is symbolized by a vagina.  Diamond   Jim   Brady   (1856–1917)   In  U.S. history and legend, popular name of  James Buchanan Brady, American financier  and   philanthropist,   noted   for   his   passion  for diamonds. He wore them on his fingers,  cuffs, and shirt fronts and is believed to have  had some diamonds in his bridgework. He  was also noted for his immense appetite for  food. Brady’s usual evening meal began with  an appetizer of two or three dozen oysters,  six crabs, and a few servings of green turtle  soup. The main course was two whole ducks,  six or seven lobsters, a sirloin steak, two serv -  ings of terrapin, and a variety of vegetables. Avalokiteshvara, one of the Dhyani-Bodhisattvas  30    Dhyani-Bodhisattvas

=== 페이지 326 ===
He topped it off with a platter of pastries  and often a two-pound box of candy. He was  particularly fond of confectionery delights.  His stomach, so legend goes, was replaced  by that of an elephant by doctors at Johns  Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He did give  money to the institution in 1912 to found the  James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute.  A Hollywood movie,   Diamond Jim,   starring  Edward Arnold and Jean Arthur, deals with  his love for Lillian Russell.  Diana   (belonging to the divine)   In Roman  mythology, an ancient Italian goddess honored  in central Italy; identified with the Greek god -  desses Artemis and Selene. The Italian Diana  was the guardian of those treaties by which  peaceful relations were begun. In her sacred  grove at Aricia she presided over the league  of Latin cities. Her worship moved to Rome  when it became the center for treaties. Diana  also was the patron goddess of women and  their protector in childbirth. Diana was often  associated with Apollo, and during the reign of  Augustus the two deities became patron gods  of the new imperial residence on the Palatine  during a special festival. During the Christian  Middle Ages the name Diana was often used for  the leader of the witches, along with Hecate. In  George Meredith’s novel   Diana of the Crossways  (1875) the heroine complains of her “pagan”  name, saying, “to me the name is ominous of  mischance.”  See also:   apollo; artemis; hecate; nymphs;  selene  Diancecht   (swift in power)   In Celtic myth-  ology, god of medicine and healing. He is  able to heal all but those who are decapitated.  At the battle of Magtured he sat by a stream  that possessed magic healing properties. There  he bathed the mortally wounded, hence his  association   with   healing   wells.   In   Christian  medieval legend he appears as an enchanter.  Today, Diancecht porridge is a cure for colds,  sore throats, and worms. It is made of hazel -  nuts, dandelions, woodsorrel, chickweed, and  oatmeal.  Dido   In   Roman   mythology,   queen   of  Carthage, mistress of the Trojan hero Aeneas;  daughter of Mutto or Belus, a king of Tyre; or  of Agenor; sister of Anna and Pygmalion. Dido’s  husband, Acherbas, Acerbas, or Sychaeus, was  murdered   by   his   brother   Pygmalion.   Dido  (also   called   Elissa   of   Belus)   fled   to   North  Africa, where she was allowed to buy as much  land as a bull’s hide could cover. The hide was  cut into thin strips and used to outline a large  section of land. On that site Dido founded  Carthage and became its queen. When Aeneas  landed in Carthage, she entertained him, and  the two fell in love. When Mercury reminded  Aeneas of his mission to found a new city for  the Trojans, pious Aeneas deserted Dido. In  complete despair she committed suicide. Some  variants of the myth, however, say her sister  Anna killed herself for love of Aeneas. Diana  Dido   30 

=== 페이지 327 ===
Vergil   was   apparently   the   first   to   syn -  chronize   the   legends   of   Dido   and   Aeneas  and make them lovers in the   Aeneid   (book 4);  later, in book 6 the hero visits the underworld,  sees Dido, and calls out to her, but she turns  her back on him and does not answer. Aside  from Vergil’s   Aeneid,   Dido appears in Ovid’s  Heroides   (7); Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Inferno,  canto 5), in which she is the one who died  for love; Chaucer’s   Legend of Good Women,   in  which the tale is based on Vergil and Ovid;  Marlowe’s play   Dido, Queen of Carthage   (1689);  Shakespeare’s   The Merchant of Venice   (5.1.9–12),  which alludes to Dido’s death; Purcell’s one-act  opera   Dido and Aeneas   (1689), which contains  the great aria, “When I Am Laid in Earth”;  and Berlioz’s   Les Troyans   (1858), based on Ver -  gil. Liberale de Veroan’s painting   Dido’s Suicide  portrays the queen on a the funeral pyre about  to stab herself to death.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the ; agenor; mer -  cury; pygmalion  Diego de Alcalá, St.   (James)   (1400–1463)  In   Christian   legend,   patron   saint   of   cooks.  Feast, 13 November.  Diego was a cook in a monastery. One day he  was caught giving away some bread to the poor  and was reprimanded by his religious superior.  But when he opened his tunic, the hidden bread  had turned into roses. He was canonized at the  request of King Philip II of Spain, who believed  that his son Don Carlos had been healed of a  serious wound by the prayers of the saint. About  1600 a wealthy Spaniard living in Rome dedi -  cated a chapel to the saint in the Church of San  Giacomo degli Spagnoli. Frescoes were painted  by Annibal Caracci and Albano, his pupil. Diego’s  name is also given as Diadacus or Didace.  Dietrich of Bern   In medieval legend, hero  of numerous poems, ballads, and chronicles,  identified with Theodoric the Great (c. 454–  526), king of the Ostrogoths.  Dietrich’s name is spelled at least 85 differ -  ent ways in various medieval manuscripts. He  was the son of Dietmar and Odilia, the heiress  of the conquered duke of Verona.  As a child he was gentle and generous when  things went his way, but when he was angry,  flames   would   shoot   out   of   his   mouth   and  consume any flammable object nearby. When  Dietrich was five, his training was entrusted  to Hildebrand, son of Herbrand, one of the  Volsung race. In a short time Dietrich was  an accomplished fighter and a close friend of  Hildebrand. In one of their first adventures  the two went out to seek the giant Grim and  the giantess Hilde. On their way they came to  a forest and met a dwarf, Alberich (Alferich,  Alpris, or Elbegast; the name varies). They  bound the dwarf and told him they would free  him only when he told them where the giants  lived.  The dwarf not only told them where the  giants lived but gave Dietrich the magic sword  Nagelring, which alone could pierce the giants’  skin. The giants’ hiding place was found, and  after an intense battle Grim was killed by Diet -  rich with the magic sword. But Hilde, though  cut in half, was still not defeated because her  body knit together again. To prevent this the  next time, Dietrich cut her in two and placed  his sword between the severed parts, knowing  that the magic steel would annul any magic of  the giantess.  The two men returned home, Dietrich with  his magic sword, Nagelring, and with Hilde -  grim, a magic helmet he had taken from the  giants. But though Dietrich believed he had  undone all of the giants, he was mistaken. More  battles ensued. One giant, Sigenot, would have  defeated Dietrich had it not been for Hildeb -  rand’s coming to his rescue.  Alberich appears again later in legends of  Dietrich. Dietlieb, a close companion of Diet -  rich, went to his master to inform him that  his only sister, Kunhild (Similde or Similt),  had been carried away by Alberich, who now  kept her a prisoner in the Tyrolean mountains,  not far from his rose garden. This garden was  surrounded by a silken thread and guarded by  3  0   Diego de Alcalá, St.

=== 페이지 328 ===
Alberich, who exacted the left foot and the  right hand of any knight venturing to enter or  breaking a single flower from its stem.  As soon as Dietrich heard the tale, he set  out to rescue Kunhild. He was accompanied by  Dietlieb, Hildebrand, Wittich, and Wolfhart.  As they came to the rose garden, all of the men  except Dietrich and Hildebrand began to tram -  ple on the flowers and break the silken thread.  Alberich put on his shining girdle of power,  which gave him the strength of 12 men, and  brandished a sword that had been tempered in  dragon’s blood and could cut through iron and  stone. He also put on his ring of victory and  the Tarnkappe (Helkappe), which allowed its  wearer to work magic.  Dietrich,   following   Hildebrand’s   instruc -  tions, struck off Alberich’s cap and took his  girdle and ring. The dwarf promised to return  Kunhild unless she wished to stay as his wife.  An agreement was made, and the knights were  treated to a supper. Alberich had drugged the  wine, and soon they all fell asleep and were  bound and cast into a prison. When Dietrich  awoke at midnight and saw his condition, he  opened his mouth, and his fiery breath burned  all the ropes. He then released Kunhild. Noise -  lessly, she brought them all back to the great  hall, where they took their arms and were given  magic rings made by the dwarfs. These rings  enabled them to see their tiny foes, who other -  wise were invisible to the naked eye.  A terrible battle ensued in which Dietrich’s  men were the victors. Now Kunhild pleaded for  Alberich’s life, asking Dietrich to set the dwarf  free if he promised to be good. Of course Alb -  erich agreed. The two were then married and  went to live in the rose garden and the under -  ground palace. In his old age Dietrich, weary  of his life and his various wives, ceased to have  any pleasure except in hunting. One day while  he was bathing in a stream, his servant came to  tell him that there was a stag in sight. Dietrich  immediately called for his horse, and as it did not  arrive quickly, he jumped on a coal-black steed  standing nearby and was quickly borne off.  Numerous other adventures are recorded of  the hero in other Middle High German poems,  such as   Das Heldenbuch   (book of heroes). He  also appears in   The Nibelungenlied   as a liegeman  of King Etzel.  See also:   attila;   hildebrandslied; niebe -  lungenlied  diffusion   The process by which aspects of cul -  ture spread from one society to another, includ -  ing myth, legend, and other forms of folklore.  The spread takes place directly, along borders  between   two   societies,   or   indirectly   through  an intermediary, in the past, for example, a  traveler and today through the media. To some  degree this spread of traditional items of folklore  answers the question of multiple occurrences of  such items (polygenesis). For others it is a cre -  ative process, where a story or song may undergo  communal recreation. In its new home, specific  items may also take on local forms, called oiko -  types, which reflect the geography, the climate,  the history and the social mores of the new  group performing the folklore item. Interest in  diffusion led to the seminal study of the folk -  tale,   The Types of the Folktale   by Antti Aarne,  which subsumed folktales under a type number  (Cinderella is type number AT 510), and even  tried to account for subsets and new redactions.  See   also:   cinderella ; monogenesis and  polygenesis; oikotype; star husband tale;  tale type  Dilmun   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Sumerian), paradise, the place where the sun  rises and the land of the living. At one time  Dilmun lacked fresh water, which was supplied  by Enki, the water god. Eaki ordered Utu, the  sun god, to fill the land with fresh water taken  from the earth. Dilmun was then turned into  a divine garden. Dilmun appears in the epic  poem   Gilgamesh   as the home of Utnapishtim  and   his   wife,   who   were   granted   immortal -  ity after the great flood. Some scholars locate  Dilmun in the Persian Gulf.  See also:   gilgamesh; utnapishtim  Dilmun   3 

=== 페이지 329 ===
Dilwica   (Diana?)   In   Slavic   mythology,  Serbian   goddess   of   the   hunt,   portrayed   as  a young girl mounted on a swift horse and  accompanied by steeds and hounds. She gal -  loped through the forests with her retinue. To  meet Dilwica in the forest would mean almost  certain death, sometimes being torn to death by  her hounds. Dilwica was called Devana by the  Czechs and Dziewona by the Poles, indicating  that her myth may have been derived from  that of the Roman goddess Diana. Others sug -  gest that Dilwica was one aspect of the Great  Goddess common to many cultures. Areas of  her worship came into contact with Teutonic  races,   who   had   absorbed   some   Greek   and  Roman mythology in their religious beliefs.  See also:   diana; great goddess  Dimbulans   In Australian mythology, large,  strong creatures who approach women in a  friendly way but later rape them. They then  allow their victims to return home.  Dinah   (judged)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.   (Gen.  34:1–31), daughter of Jacob and Leah, who  married Shechem, a Hivite, the man who had  raped her. Dinah’s brothers were so incensed  that they killed Shechem and all of his men and  destroyed their city.  See also:   jacob; leah  Diomedes   (godlike ruler)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, hero, king of Argos, son of Tydeus and  Deipyle; companion to Achilles in the siege  of Troy. He was a favorite of Athena, who  constantly protected him, especially since he  wounded both Ares and Aphrodite (Venus), who  sided with the Trojans. He entered Troy in the  wooden horse. Diomedes appears in Homer’s  Iliad   (books 2, 5, 6, 10, 23), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  1), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 14), and Dante’s  Divine Comedy   (Inferno), in which he is placed,  along with Ulysses (Odysseus), as one of the  “counselors of fraud” in the Eighth Circle of  Hell. Ingres’s   Venus Wounded by Diomedes   deals  with one episode of his life.  See   also:   achilles;   aeneid,   the;   ares;  athena;   iliad, the;   ovid; troy; venus  Dionysus   (lame god)   In Greek mythology,  one of the 12 Olympian gods; god of fertility,  ecstasy, and wine; son of Zeus and Semele;  called Bacchus by the Romans. Zeus’s wife,  Hera,   angry   that   her   husband   had   another  mistress, persuaded Semele to let Zeus appear  to her in all his splendor. When Zeus appeared  with thunder and lightning, Semele was burned  to ashes by the splendor of the vision. Before  she   was   completely   consumed,   Zeus   seized  her unborn child, Dionysus, and implanted  the child in his own thigh until the child was  ready to be born; thus, Dionysus is sometimes  called   Dithyrambus   (twice born). The young  god was taken to Mount Nysa in India, where  he was raised by Ino, his mother’s sister, and  by nymphs. The uses of wine were taught to  him by Silenus, a son of Pan, and by the satyrs.  He was also taught the mystery of ivy, a mild  intoxicant when chewed and a symbol of ever -  lasting life. Always angry with him, Hera drove  Dionysus mad, sending him wandering around  the world. The god was restored to his senses  by   the   earth   goddess   Rhea.   Dionysus   then  went on to teach humankind the cultivation of  the vine and the uses of wine. Once during his  travels he was captured by sailors who wanted  to sell him into slavery in Egypt. During the  voyage to Egypt, Dionysus had vines grow up  out of the sea, entwining the mast of the ship.  Then the god appeared in all his splendor,  3  2   Dilwica  Reception of Dionysus   (Bacchus)

=== 페이지 330 ===
surrounded by wild beasts and crowned with  ivy. All of the sailors except Acetes, who had  befriended Dionysus, were transformed into  dolphins. Acetes piloted the ship to Naxos,  where Dionysus found Ariadne, who had been  deserted by Theseus. Dionysus fell in love with  her and asked Zeus to grant her immortal -  ity. Ariadne’s wedding gift, a golden crown,  appears in the constellation of Taurus and is  called the Corona Borealis.  Dionysus’s cult was one of the most impor -  tant in Greece and later in Rome, where at  first it was forbidden because its ceremonies  sometimes culminated in the ritual killing of  animals or even human victims. One myth tells  how King Pentheus opposed the worship of  the god, and Dionysus had him torn to pieces  by his own mother when the king attempted to  stop the Dionysian rites on Mount Cithaeron.  In   another   myth,   when   King   Lycurgus   of  Thrace opposed worship of the god, Dionysus  drove the king mad, having him kill his own  son, who the king believed was a vine in need  of pruning.  Dionysus was closely associated with Deme -  ter as a season divinity; his festivals were cel -  ebrated in winter (when the god was believed  to suffer) and in spring (when the god arose  from his deathlike sleep). Often the celebra -  tions took the form of orgiastic rites, but these  were somewhat tamed down when Dionysus’s  cult was accepted by Apollo at Delphi. Greek  drama stems from the Athenian spring festival,  the Great Dionysia, held in honor of the god,  who was a patron of the drama in association  with Apollo and the Muses. The first tragedy  was composed by Thespis under commission  from the Athenian tyrant Pisistratus in 534  b.c.e.   to inaugurate the Great Dionysia. Com -  edies and tragedies were played at the theater  of Dionysus in Athens. Plato’s   Ion   has Socrates  say that “all good poets, epic as well as lyric,  compose their poems not by art, but because  they are inspired and possessed by a god,”  namely Dionysus. The release of powerful irra -  tional impulses through ritual drama was seen  as a necessary catharsis, according to Aristotle’s  analysis of the effect of tragedy in his   Poetics.  In Greek art Dionysus appears as a hand -  some, strong man, crowned with ivy leaves and  holding a bunch of grapes in one hand and a  cup in the other. Often surrounding him are  tigers, panthers, and other wild animals. His  staff, thyrsus, is tipped with a pinecone.  Dionysus’s   female   followers   are   called  Maenads, Bacchantes, or Bassairds. The term  Dionysian   is   now   generally   used   to   express  sensual   and   irrational   impulses   in   man,   as  opposed to Apollonian, the rational, according  to Nietzsche in his discussion of the Greeks.  Dionysus appears in the Homeric   Hymn  to Dionysus,   which tells the myth of the sail -  ors; in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 3); and in  Euripides’   Bacchae,   which tells of the killing of  Pentheus. He also appears in various English  and American poems, including Spenser’s   Shep -  heardes Calendar ; Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book  7.31–33), in which the poet condemns the god;  Keats’s   Ode to a Nightingale,   which rejects the  irrational power of the god, and also   Endymion  (book 4.193–267), in which the poet describes  a Bacchanalian procession; Matthew Arnold’s  “Bacchanalia: or, The New Age”; Ralph Waldo  Emerson’s “Bacchus”; Shelley’s “Ode to the  West Wind” (20–23), which describes the Mae -  nads; Swinburne’s   Atalanta in Calydon,   in which  the female devotees of the god are described;  Bacchanalian reclining on a couch  Dionysus   3  3

=== 페이지 331 ===
and Albert Noyes’s “Bacchus and the Pirates.”  In music Richard Strauss’s opera   Ariadne auf  Naxos   and Albert Roussel’s ballet   Bacchus et Ari -  adne   deal with the god. In art Michelangelo’s  statue of   Bacchus ; Titian’s   Bacchus and Ariadne ;  Correggio’s   Bacchus ; Piero di Cosimo’s   Discov -  ery of Wine ; Poussin’s   Bacchanalian Revel ; the  frieze in the Villa dei Misteri at Pompeii, which  shows scenes from the mystery cult of the  god; and the reclining Dionysus of the Elgin  Marbles are some of the artworks inspired by  Dionysus.  See also:   acetes; dolphin; hera; nymphs;  olympian gods; pan; semele; satyrs; zeus  Dioscuri   In Greek and Roman mythology,  the Heavenly Twins, Castor and Polydeuces  (Pollux to the Romans). Polydeuces was said  to have been the son of Zeus and Leda and  was thus immortal, while Castor was fathered  by Tyndareus, Leda’s husband. The concep -  tions took place simultaneously. In Sparta,  where   there   were   also   often   dual   kings,  Castor and Polydeuces were worshipped in  the form of a wooden structure shaped like  a capital H. They were famous as athletes,  Castor as a rider and Polydeuces as a boxer.  Polydeuces   displayed   his   skills   during   the  voyage of the Argonauts. The two seem to  have close links with other Indo- European  deities, such as the Ashwins in Hindu mythol -  ogy and Hengist and Horsa in Anglo-Saxon  mythology.  See also:   argonauts; ashwins; castor and  polydeuces; hengist and horsa; leda; zeus  Dipankara Buddha   (light-bringer)   In Bud -  dhism, the Buddha of Fixed Light, who is  portrayed in the   mudra   of “blessing of fearless -  ness” and that of charity and love. Dipankara  lived some 100,000 years on earth, some 3,000  years before anyone was found worthy to hear  his message. When he was born there was a  miracle—a large number of lamps were sud -  denly lit—thus his name. In Tibet he is called  Mar-me-mdsad; in China, Ting-kuang-fo. The  life that was to become Buddha Shakyamuni  made his definite Bodhisattva resolves under  Dipamkara, in the form of the Brahmin Megha  (i.e., Megha became Sakyamuni.)  See also:   mudra  Dirona   (Sirona)   In   Celtic   mythology,   a  mother goddess who appears to be identical  with the goddess known elsewhere as Divona.  She is depicted with a dog on her lap, a diadem  (implying high status), three eggs (a fertility  symbol), and a snake wrapped around her arm.  The ancient Roman writers associated her with  the consort of their god Mercury.  See also:   mercury  Dismas   (Dysmas,   Dimas)   In   medieval  Christian legend, the name usually given to the  Penitent Thief who suffered with Christ at the  Crucifixion. He is, however, not named in the  Gospels. His relics are claimed by Bologna, and  he is commemorated on 25 March. The impeni -  tent thief is usually called Gesmas or Gestas.  Diti   In   Hindu   mythology,   mother   of   the  Dityas, a race of demon giants, and the Maruts,  the wind gods. Diti was married to the sage  Kasyapa and through him was the mother of  the Dityas. Indra, however, objected to the  demons and cast them down into the ocean  depths. Upset by the loss of her children, Diti  asked her husband, Kasyapa, for a child who  would destroy Indra. The wish was granted but  with one condition.  “If, with thoughts wholly pious and person  entirely pure,” her husband said, “you carefully  carry the babe in your womb for a hundred  years.”   Following   this   condition,   Diti   went  through 99 years. In the last year, she went to  bed one night without washing her feet, which  was a ritual necessity. Indra then cast a thun -  derbolt into Diti’s womb, dividing the unborn  child into seven. The children then began to  cry. Indra said,   “Ma rodih”   (weep not), but this  was to no avail. Indra divided each of the seven  into another seven, thus creating 49 Maruts.  3  4   Dioscuri

=== 페이지 332 ===
Another explanation for the origin of the  Maruts is that 49 lumps of flesh were made into  boys by the god Shiva at the request of his wife,  Parvati. In this telling they are called Rudras  because Rudra has come to be another name  for the god Shiva.  See also:   indra; kasyapa; maruts; rudra;  shiva  Divali   A Hindu festival celebrated for five  days in October and November. Originally,  Divali was a fertility festival, and up to the  end of the 19th century farmers would go  to dung heaps and worship them by placing  flowers, fruit, other offerings, and lights on  them. Today it is a sort of All Fools’ Day, when  servants are allowed to play practical jokes on  their masters, and people joyfully throw water,  colored powder, and excrement at each other.  See also:   all souls’ day  Dives   (rich)   In medieval Christian legend,  the name given to the unnamed rich man in  Jesus’ parable of the rich man and Lazarus  (Luke 16:19–31).   Dives   is Latin for “rich” and  appears in the Vulgate translation of the Bible.  Divji   Moz   (wild men)   In Slovenian folk -  lore, wild men who inhabit the forest. They  have enormous strength, the peasants are gen -  erally fearful of them, but often the Divji Moz  help by offering advice on how to work in the  forest. In return the peasants offer them food.  Sometimes, when not in a good mood, the  Divji Moz cause peasants to lose their way in  the forests or, worse, tickle them to death.  Djanbun   In Australian mythology, a human  being who turned into a platypus. One day a  man named Djanbun came out of Washington  Creek and was traveling alone across great  mountains. He was carrying a fire stick and  trying to get it to burst into flame. As he blew  and blew on the sparking end, some glowing  chars fell from it and turned into gold. But still  the stick would not turn to flame. As he blew  harder, he felt that his mouth was growing  larger. Djanbun threw the stick down to the  ground and jumped into the water. As soon as  he did, he turned into a platypus. To this day  natives warn of blowing too hard on fire sticks  for fear that, like Djanbun, one just might turn  into a platypus.  Djanggawul   In Australian mythology, pri -  meval beings, two sisters and a brother and  their companion Bralbral, who traveled across  the earth. The Djanggawul brother is depicted  as coming ashore on Arnhem Land, his face  covered with sea foam. Always pregnant by  their brother, the two sisters peopled the land,  teaching various rituals and customs to the  people. At first the two sisters had elongated  genitals,   embodying   both   male   and   female  aspects. However, their brother cut off the  “excess,” making them proper women accord -  ing to the myth. This belief is used to explain  why men now control the sacred ceremonies  that were once believed to have been the prop -  erty of women alone.  djinn   (jinn, jinni, jinnee; in English confused  with genie)   In Arabic mythology, one of a  class of supernatural beings subject to magic  control. According to myth they were created  from fire two millennia before Adam and are  governed by a race of kings named Syleyman,  one of whom built the pyramids. They take  on different shapes, as serpents, dogs, cats,  monsters, and also as humans. The evil djinn  are exceptionally ugly, and the good ones are  exquisitely beautiful.  See also:   aladdin; devils; hafaza; harut  and marut; houri; iblis; ruh; sakhar; sang  gala raja; shaitans  Djokhrane   In   Islamic   legend,   Berber  folk   hero   who   fought   against   the   Romans.  Djokhrane led a rebellion against Rome, final -  ly ending in hand-to-hand combat with one  Roman soldier. He was losing the battle when  a jaybird flew down and pecked out the eyes  Djokhrane   3  5

=== 페이지 333 ===
of the Roman soldier. Djokhrane told his chil -  dren: “As long as you live, never eat this bird.  If anyone brings you one to eat, buy it and  set it free.” The Romans had a similar legend  concerning a raven. Marcus Valerius, a Roman  hero, was fighting a Gallic warrior when a  raven swooped down and pecked out the eyes  of Marcus’s adversary.  See also:   raven  Dockalfar   (dark elves)   In Norse mythology,  the dark elves or dwarfs who live underground.  They tend to be evil by nature but often can  be appeased.  See also:   alfar; alfheim; nine worlds  Doctors of the Church   In Christianity,  title used since the Middle Ages for certain  Christian writers noted for their theological  works, which are considered the foundation of  most Christian theology. In the Western church  the Four Doctors are St. Jerome, St. Ambrose,  St. Augustine, and St. Gregory the Great. In the  Eastern church the Four Doctors are St. John  Chrysostom, St. Basil the Great, St. Athanasius,  and St. Gregory Nazianzen. In medieval Western  art the Four Western, or Latin, Doctors are  often grouped around the Virgin and Child.  The   Eastern,   or   Greek,   Doctors   are   rarely  found in Western medieval art. However, they  appear, in the central dome of the baptistery of  St. Mark’s in Venice, the work having been done  by Greek artists of the 12th and 13th centuries.  The term Fathers of the Church is also used for  Doctors of the Church.  During the Middle Ages the Schoolmen,  theologians who lectured in the cloisters and  cathedral   schools,   also   were   called   doctors.  Many of them became known under special  titles such as Angelic Doctor for St. Thomas  Aquinas, Mellifluous Doctor for St. Bernard,  and Seraphic Doctor for St. Bonaventura.  See   also:   ambrose, st.; athanasius, st.;  augustine, st.; basil, st.; bonaventura, st.;  gregory, st.; jerome, st.; john chrysostom, st.;  thomas acquinas  Dodona   In Greek cult, the site of the oracle  of Zeus, built by Deucalion after the deluge and  located in northwestern Greece. At Dodona  there were priestesses called Peleiades (pigeons)  who made known the will of Zeus. A large oak,  sacred to Zeus, was the home of the real pigeons,  and the god revealed himself by the rustling or  markings of the leaves and the murmuring of  a nearby brook. The priests of the shrine were  called Selloi according to Homer’s   Iliad   (16). In  later times oracles were taken from lots and the  ringing of a gong or basin. In front of the gong  was an iron statue of a boy with a whip made  of three chains, from which hung some buttons  that touched the gong. If the whip moved in the  breeze, the buttons sounded against the gong.  The shrine of Zeus gave way to that of Delphi,  dedicated to Apollo, though it continued until  about the fourth century   c.e.  See also:   apollo; delphi; deucalion;   iliad,  the;   peleiades; zeus  dog   A domesticated carnivorous mammal; in  world mythology and folklore, symbol of both  demonic and beneficent forces. In the Buddhist  hell, dogs inflict punishments, and the Hindu  god of death, Yama, has two dogs that are sent  out to bring back wandering souls. A red dog  was sacrificed by the Aztecs to help carry the  soul of the dead king across a stream or to  announce his arrival in the other world. The  dog is referred to some 40 times in the Bible.  Deuteronomy (23:18) sums up the Hebrew  attitude: “Thou shalt not bring the hire of a  whore, or the price of a dog, into the house of  the Lord thy God for any vow: for even both  are   abomination   unto   the   Lord   thy   God.”  “Dog” was a term used for a male homosexual  dedicated to pagan gods who took part in sexu -  al rites. In the book of Tobit (5:16), part of the  Old Testament Apocrypha and not included  in the Hebrew or Protestant Bible, there is a  positive mention of Tobit’s dog, reflecting a  different attitude.  In many ancient and modern tales dogs  help solve crimes. Plutarch, the Greek writer,  3  6   Dockalfar

=== 페이지 334 ===
reports a tale of how King Pyrrhus came upon  a dog on the road guarding the body of a dead  man. The dog was taken back to the king’s  palace, fed, and made comfortable. One day  while the king was reviewing his troops, the  dog began to growl and bark at some soldiers.  The men were arrested, questioned, and found  guilty of the murder of the dog’s master.  European medieval legend tells of Aubry of  Montdidier, who was murdered in 1371. His  dog, Dragon, always snarled and went for the  throat of a man named Richard of Macaire.  Years later Richard was condemned to judicial  combat with the dog. He lost, and with his  dying breath Richard admitted he had killed  Aubry. Based on tales of this type, medieval  Christianity saw the dog as a symbol of con -  science. Francis Thompson’s ode “The Hound  of Heaven” portrays the soul’s flight from God  and God’s unrelenting houndlike pursuit. In  Goethe’s   Faust,   Mephistopheles makes his first  appearance disguised as a dog. Walt Disney’s  Pluto combines the beneficent aspect of the  dog with a demonic name, since Pluto is the  Latin form of Hades, the god of the under -  world, whose dog was Cerberus. Snoopy, of  the   Peanuts   cartoon, is also beneficent. In fact,  he often sounds like a Midwestern preacher.  There are numerous motifs associated with  dogs in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See   also:   faust; hades; mephistopheles;  pluto; seven sleepers of ephesus, the; yama  Dog and His Shadow, The   Aesopic fable  found in various European and Oriental col -  lections.  A dog stole a piece of meat from a butcher  shop. On his way to a safe place where he  could eat it without interruption he had to  cross a footbridge over a clear stream. Looking  down, he saw his own reflection in the water.  Thinking that the reflection was another dog  with another piece of meat, and being a greedy  dog, he made up his mind to have that also.  So he snarled and made a grab for the other  dog’s meat. As his greedy mouth opened, out  dropped the piece of meat, which fell into the  stream and was lost.  Moral:   Grasp at the shadow and lose the  substance.  In one Indian version of the fable, the tale  is   somewhat   expanded.   An   unfaithful   wife  eloping with her lover arrives at the bank of a  stream. There the lover persuades her to strip  herself so that he may carry her clothes across  the stream. He does so but never returns. The  god Indra, seeing the woman’s plight, changes  himself into a jackal bearing a piece of flesh  in his mouth and goes down to the bank of  the stream. When the god, transformed into  a jackal, sees the fish sporting in the water, he  lays aside the meat, and plunges in after them.  A vulture hovering nearby seizes the meat and  bears it off. The jackal, returning unsuccess -  fully from his fishing, is taunted by the woman,  who cries out:  “The fish swims in the waters still, the  vulture is off with the meat. Deprived of  both fish and meat, Mistress jackal [here  the god is addressed as a woman], whither  away?”  The jackal replies:  “Great as is my wisdom, thine is twice as  great. No husband, no lover, no clothes,  lady, whither away?”  Thus, in the Indian version the loss of the meat  is a deliberate plan of the god Indra to read a  lesson to the unfaithful wife.  Juan Ruiz, the archpriest of Hita, in his   El  Libro de Buen Amor   (The Book of Good Love),  also tells the fable, with the moral: “The same  thing happens every day to the servant of cupid -  ity. He expects to realize a profit with your  help, and he loses his capital. From this evil  root springs all evil; cupidity is truly a deadly  sin. Man should never abandon goods of great  value, already secure, and held free and clear,  for an empty dream; he who abandons what he  Dog and His Shadow, The   3 

=== 페이지 335 ===
has strikes a very bad bargain” (translated by  Rigo Mignani and Marie A. Di Cesare).  See also:   aesopic fables; indra  Dog and the Cat, The   This Korean tale  is based on the motif of helpful animals (motif  numbers B300–B349). An old tavern keeper  had a dog that guarded the door to the house  and a cat that kept the storeroom free of rats.  No matter how much wine he sold, there was  always more, and he never seemed to run out.  The tavern keeper had not always owned his  tavern but was for many years a ferryman on  the river. Once, when he returned home after  a long day of work, an old man asked him for a  bowl of wine. He told the old man to come in  and gave him some wine. The old man thanked  the ferryman and gave him a small gift, a piece  of amber, and told the ferryman to keep it in  the wine jug and it would never run out. It was  always the sweetest and richest wine imaginable,  and, indeed, never did run out. The ferryman  then said that he could open a tavern and would  no longer have to ferry back and forth across the  river. One day, when he picked up the jug, there  was no more wine in it, so he shook the jug and  discovered that the beautiful piece of amber was  missing. The dog and cat noticed that he was sad  and began to sniff around looking for the jewel.  It was nowhere to be found, and they reasoned  that someone must have received it in a bowl  of wine and taken it home. They decided to go  through every house in the village looking for  the treasure. When the water froze on the river,  they crossed over and continued their search,  until one day the cat caught a scent of the amber  in a document box on top of a large chest. They  did not know how to open the chest and finally  said: “Let’s ask the rats to help us; they can gnaw  a hole in the box and get the amber out for us.”  The cat knew that the rats would not happily  help them, and so they decided to promise the  rats that they would be left alone for the next 10  years. This they did, and finally a little rat was  able to go inside the box and fetch the amber.  Now they just had to take it back to the tavern  owner, but the river had thawed, and they would  have to swim. Since the cat could not swim, she  had to ride on the back of the dog and hold the  amber in her mouth. In the water, the dog was  concerned that the cat would drop the amber  and thus questioned her over and over again:  “Do you still have the amber?” The cat became  so frustrated that it finally answered and imme -  diately the amber dropped into the water. The  dog shook the cat off his back and it scurried up  a tree, while the dog went to look for the amber.  A fish had swallowed the amber but the dog  could smell it and stole the fish from the fisher -  man who had just caught it. Now he brought  the fish to his master and placed it on the floor  at his feet. “We need something to eat,” said his  master, and he cut open the fish to prepare it.  Inside was the amber, and so the tavern owner  locked it in a chest and went out to buy a jug of  wine. When he returned and opened the chest  he was greatly surprised because everything in  the chest had doubled, there were two jackets  instead of one, two combs instead of one, and,  most important, there were two money pouches.  He became richer than he could have imagined,  and the dog was always well cared for. The dog  never killed another rat, but he chased away  every cat that came near him.  See also:   cat; dog  dolphin   A   marine   mammal   resembling   a  small whale with an elongated head; in world  mythology   and   folklore,   often   appearing   as  a friend of man. One Greek myth tells how  Arion, a poet of the sixth century   b.c.e.,   was  saved by dolphins when he was cast overboard  from a ship. In a similar myth Telemachus,  son of the Greek hero Odysseus, was saved  from drowning by a helpful band of dolphins  that carried him safely to shore. In gratitude  Odysseus engraved a dolphin on his ring and  emblazoned one on his shield. The Roman  emperor Titus had a portrait of a dolphin  twisted around an anchor to symbolize the  mean between the dolphin’s swiftness and the  anchor’s heaviness. Many early Christian paint -  3    Dog and the Cat, The

=== 페이지 336 ===
ings and carvings portray a dolphin swallowing  Jonah. In later European heraldry the device of  a dolphin was often used with the motto   Festina  lente   (hasten   slowly).   In   medieval   Christian  folklore the dolphin was believed to carry the  souls of the blessed to the isle of the dead.  See also:   jonah; odysseus; telemachus  Domitilla,   Nereus,   and   Achilleus,   Sts.  (first century)   In Christian legend, martyrs.  Feast, 12 May.  The Golden Legend,   a collection of saints’  lives written in the 13th century by Jacobus de  Voragine, contains the lives of the Roman mar -  tyrs. The two men were chamberlains to Flavia  Domitilla, a rich woman. They not only con -  verted her to Christianity but made her take a  vow of chastity. When her betrothed, Aurelian,  heard of her vow, he ordered her servants to sac -  rifice to the Roman gods, knowing they would  refuse and be executed. They refused, and their  heads were “smitten off.” Aurelian then decided  he would marry Domitilla. He sent two men  and two women to obtain her consent by magic,  but she converted them also. When he realized  that his scheme had failed, he came to her room,  asking “the enchanters to sing, and commanded  the others to dance with him as he would defoul  Domitilla, but the jugglers left singing, and the  others dancing, and he himself ceased not to  dance two days continually, unto the time that  he expired and died.”  When Aurelian’s brother Luxurius heard  what had happened, he set fire to the palace  and burned all of the Christians, Domitilla  among them. Rubens painted   St. Domitilla, St.  Nereus and St. Achilleus   as part of a triptych for  the Oratorians of the Chiesa Nuova in Rome.  The Oratorians rejected the first version of the  work but accepted the second, which portrays  Domitilla richly dressed, holding a palm, with  the two male saints on either side.  See also:   golden legend, the  Domnu   (abyss, deep sea)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, a goddess of the Fomorians, the evil deities  who were defeated and replaced by the Tuatha  de Danann, people of the goddess Danu.  See   also:   danu; fomorians; tuatha de  danann  Domovoi   (Domoule,   Domovik,   Domovoj,  Domovoy)   (house spirit)   In Slavic folklore, a  house spirit, often called grandfather or master  of the house. It is also called   dedushka   (grand -  dad) or   chelovek   (fellow) in Russian.  According to one myth, when Svarog cre -  ated the heavens and the earth, one group  of spirits revolted against him. God cast out  the rebellious spirits from heaven; some fell  into the water or forests, and others fell onto  housetops   or   in   backyards.   Those   that   fell  onto housetops or in backyards became good  because of their contact with humans; the oth -  ers remained wicked. It is believed by some  Russians that when someone is about to die  in a house, the Domovoi will cry. Domovoi  likes living near the stove in a house, while his  wife, Domovikha, likes to live in the basement.  Some accounts say his wife is Kikimora. Every  time the master of the house left, his wife  would cover the mouth of the stove so that  Domovoi would not leave as well.  Variant names for the house spirit in Slavic  folklore   are   Iskrzychi   (Galicia   and   Poland),  Syenovik (Montenegro), Tsmok (White Rus -  sia), and Djadek (Czech and Slovak).  See also:   kikimora  Domovoi and the Two Peasants, The   In  Slavic folklore, the Domovoi is a house spirit  that is generally helpful. Once there were two  peasants who lived near the city of Kazan. Each  owned three horses, but those of the first peas -  ant were always healthy and energetic, while  those of the other were weak and lazy. Neither  could decide why there was such a difference.  One night they stayed up late and watched the  horses from behind a large oak tree. A dark  figure appeared around midnight, a dwarf with  a   long   beard,   who   then   groomed,   fed,   and  watered the horses of the first peasant. When he  Domovoi and the Two Peasants, The   3 

=== 페이지 337 ===
found his water barrel still full the next morn -  ing, he knew that it was the Domovoi who had  appeared. The other peasant became jealous  and told a lie, saying “The water may be good  for the animals but it is harmful to humans. It is  charmed by a wicked spirit and will cause you  much suffering.” He devised a trick and told the  naive peasant to drill a hole in the barrel and to  unplug it at night so that the wicked spirit could  not fill it with bad water. When the Domovoi  appeared that night and tried to fill the barrel,  the water continued to run out, and the barrel  remained empty. This angered the dwarf, and  he vented his anger against the animals and the  peasant, beating the horses, then setting fire to  the house and the stable. The peasant saw what  had happened and called on the Domovoi to  forgive him and restore his farm, but all to no  avail. Nothing ever prospered with him again.  See also:   domovoi  Donato of Arezzo, St.   (given)   (fourth cent -  ury)   In Christian legend, bishop and martyr.  Feast, 7 August.  Born of a noble family, Donato studied with  his companion, Emperor Julian. When Julian  gave up Christianity and became known as  Julian the Apostate, he put Donato’s father to  death for being a Christian. Donato fled from  Rome to Arezzo along with his companion, the  monk Hilarion. They preached and performed  many miracles.  One legend tells how he helped find hid -  den money. A tax collector went on a journey  and left money with his wife, Euphrosina. She  died suddenly, having told no one where she  had hidden the money. When the tax collector  returned, he was afraid he would be thought a  thief. He called Donato to help him. They went  to Euphrosina’s tomb and called to her, and her  voice told them where the money was hidden.  Since many others were present at the miracle,  a vast number of people were converted. Donato  was made bishop of Arezzo. Once when he was  saying Mass, the chalice of wine (which was  made of glass) was broken by some idolaters.  Donato prayed over it, and it was restored with  not one drop spilled. Again, because it was wit -  nessed by so many people, many pagans were  converted. This caused the authorities to arrest  Donato and Hilarion. Donato was beheaded,  and Hilarion was scourged to death.  Their bodies lie under the high altar of the  cathedral of Arezzo, where their shrine has  sculptures by Giovanni di Francesco of Arezzo  and Betto di Francesco of Florence, completed  in the 14th century.  Don Juan Tenorio   (14th century)   In late  medieval   legend,   libertine   Spanish   nobleman  who is taken off to hell for his sins. Don Juan, the  son of a leading family in Seville, killed the com -  mandant of Ulloa after seducing his daughter. To  put an end to his debaucheries the Franciscans  enticed him to their monastery and killed him,  telling the people that he had been carried off to  hell by the statue of the commandant, who was  buried on their monastery grounds.  The legend of Don Juan is believed to have  originated in various Spanish ballads in which  insult to the dead and invitation to join the liv -  ing at a banquet frequently appear. Don Juan  first appears on the stage in Tirso de Molina’s  play   El burlador de Sevilla y convidado de piedra  (The Playboy of Seville and the Stone Guest).  The French took up the subject with plays by  Dorimon, De Villiers, and Molière. The Ger -  man and Swiss writers Grabbe and Frisch also  wrote plays about Don Juan, the former on  Don Juan and Faust, while the latter wrote a  comedy in which Don Juan flees from his wed -  ding, only to meet his bride in a park, to which  she had also fled in fear of marriage.  The most important opera on the theme is  Mozart’s   Don Giovanni,   with a libretto by Da  Ponte. Other musical works are Dargomijsky’s  Kamjennyi Gost   (The Stone Guest) with a Push -  kin text, Gluck’s ballet   Don Juan,   and Richard  Strauss’s tone poem   Don Juan.   Later plays on  the subject are Zorrilla’s   Don Juan Tenorio,   in  which the don is saved, and Shaw’s   Man and  Superman.   Byron’s long narrative poem   Don  320   Donato of Arezzo, St.

=== 페이지 338 ===
Juan   recasts the Don into an agreeable young  man, passively amoral rather than actively evil.  See also:   ballad; faust  Donkey’s Egg, The   A Korean numbskull  tale in which a foolish farmer is sent by his  wife to a local market to sell a bolt of cloth  and to purchase something they need. When  the farmer sees a large basket of watermelons,  he is duped by the owner of the fruit stand  into believing they are donkey eggs that will  hatch in a month if they are kept warm by the  stove. The time arrives, but the watermelon  has spoiled, and so the farmer throws it out. By  chance, a baby donkey is grazing nearby, and  the foolish farmer believes the watermelon-egg  has actually hatched and produced the small  animal. The wife begins to weave a lot of cloth  so they can buy more donkey eggs. The real  owner suddenly appears and takes the young  donkey away, while the foolish farmer and his  wife just stand there and watch.  See also:   numbskull tales  Don   Quixote   A novel whose full title is  El ingenioso hidalgo don Quijote de la Mancha  (“The   Ingenious   Hidalgo   Don   Quixote   of  La Mancha”), written by the Spanish author  Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra. Part 1 of the  novel, which was published in 1604, became  an instant success and led to an unauthorized  sequel by an author who simply called himself  Avellaneda. The sequel caused Cervantes to  quickly complete part 2, which was published  in 1614, shortly before his death in 1615.  The novel reflects Spain’s divergent worlds  in the 16th and 17th centuries. The Renaissance  had given rise to a new humanism, but popular  writing was still devoted in a large degree to  romances about knights in shining armor and  a code of chivalry. It is from such sources that  Cervantes   drew   his   images   of   a   wandering  knight who felt it was his duty to protect the  weak, perform good deeds, and most impor -  tant, idolize women. Part 1 of   Don Quixote  is in essence a parody of those romances still  popular and in circulation during Cervantes’s  time. Having read numerous books on chiv -  alrous ideals, the protagonist, named Alonso  Quixano, finally loses his mind from lack of  food and sleep as a result of all his reading. He  decides to set out as a knight-errant, wearing  an old suit of armor, and then steals a barber’s  basin he believes is the mythic Mambrino’s hel -  met. At an inn, he has the innkeeper dub him  with a new name, “Don Quixote de la Man -  cha.” He is accompanied on his travels by a  common laborer named Sancho Panza, whose  reward for his assistance is to become a wealthy  governor on a remote island. Quixote is tall  and slender, while Sancho is short and dumpy,  which produces an impression of humorous  contradiction that accompanies them both at  the time of writing and in the art and music  produced about the two characters over the  next four centuries. Quixote names the “lady”  for whom he will toil Dulcinea del Toboso, who  is in reality a farm girl called Aldonza Lorenzo.  Dulcinea is unaware of the knight’s feelings for  her and, in fact, does not even appear in the  novel itself but rather only in Quixote’s imagi -  nation. On his horse, named Rocinante, noth -  ing more than a barn nag, Quixote engages in  battles similar to those of other knights and  continues to invoke chivalric ideals. The most  famous of the battles is that with the windmills  in La Mancha, which Quixote believes are in  actuality ferocious giants. In the 52 chapters in  part 1, there are numerous such stories, includ -  ing those from individuals who Quixote and  Sancho Panza meet on their journey. There is  the funeral of a student who dies of unrequited  love for a lady who has become a shepherdess.  He unknowingly unites two bereaved couples  who are torn apart by the treachery of one  of the lovers, Ferdinand. When they are all  finally reunited at an inn, Don Quixote goes to  sleep and dreams that he is once again battling  giants. Along the way a young maid falls in love  with Don Quixote, but he remains faithful to  his ideal woman, Dulcinea. After many such  episodes, a beaten and defeated Don Quixote  Don Quixote   32 

=== 페이지 339 ===
Don Quixote after His Battle with the Cat   (Gustave Doré)  322   Don Quixote

=== 페이지 340 ===
forswears his chivalric ideals and finally dies  in a fever, and with his death the knight-errant  finally becomes extinct.  The second part of the novel is more philo -  sophical and not nearly so fantastic. Cervantes  has his protagonists act out their dreams in  a more meaningful way. In 74 chapters Don  Quixote and Sancho Panza discuss such liter -  ary topics as playwriting, poetry, and fictional  literature,   and   thus   place   the   novel   in   the  literary   tradition   that   was   changing   at   the  time. Through their conversation, Cervantes  includes social and religious commentary and  criticizes the class structure and the outdated  concepts   of   nobility   and   personal   property  ownership current in Spain at the time. Cer -  vantes also does not hesitate to discuss the  church in his novel, for which he was briefly  excommunicated.  Parody is seen particularly in his choice of  names for individuals and even animals. The  name Quixote is a pun on the Catalan word  cuixot,   meaning “thigh,” and is used in refer -  ence to a horse’s rump. The suffix - ote   is a  superlative. The name of his horse, Rocinante,  is derived from the word   rocín,   the word for a  workhorse, and today used to describe a rough  laborer or an unkempt man. It is also possible  that the suffix - ante,   meaning “before,” was  attached to the word   rocín,   thus indicating that  this “used to be” a workhorse but is now noth -  ing but a nag. Even the idolized Dulcinea is an  allusion to an illusion of sweetness.  The legacy of   Don Quixote   has had an enor -  mous influence on other writers, musicians,  and artists. Some are brief and subtle, such  as the horse Rosinante in Laurence Sterne’s  Tristram Shandy   or the characters of Samuel  Pickwick and Sam Weller in Charles Dickens’s  The Pickwick Papers,   where the comedic short/  tall pairing of Quixote and Sancho is reversed.  Prince   Myshkin   in   Dostoyevsky’s   The   Idiot  is clearly modeled on Don Quixote, and the  novel as a whole plays an important role in  Michel Foucault’s book   The Order of Things.  More recently, Salman Rushdie’s   The Moor’s  Last   Sigh   drew   inspiration   from   Cervantes,  including the use of names and characters bor -  rowed from the original   Don Quixote.   Musical  treatment includes such well-known compos -  ers as Felix Mendelssohn in his   Die Hochzeit  des Camacho,   Richard Strauss in a tone poem  entitled simply “Don Quixote” but subtitled  “Fantastic Variations for Large Orchestra on  a Theme of Knightly Character.” Perhaps the  best-known musical work is the   Man of La  Mancha,   with music by Mitch Leigh and lyrics  by Joe Darion. Premiered in 1965, the one-act  Broadway musical combines the novel and the  life story of Cervantes. In the field of visual  arts, the novel has inspired such well-known  artists as Gustave Doré, Pablo Picasso, Salva -  dor Dalí, and Honoré Daumier, who produced  29 paintings and 49 drawings derived from  characters and episodes in the book. There are  also numerous film adaptations of the novel,  the earliest dating from 1933 and continuing  into the present. A film version of the musical  Man of La Mancha   (1972) stars Peter O’Toole  as Don Quixote and Miguel de Cervantes, and  Sophia Loren as Dulcinea. A British made-for-  television version,   The Adventures of Don Quixote  (1973), starred Rex Harrison and Frank Finlay,  and a filmed version by the Russian Minkus  ballet with Rudolf Nureyev also appeared in  1973. In 2002, a made-for-television version  was coproduced by Hallmark and the Turner  Network Television, and starred John Lithgow,  Vanessa Williams, and Isabella Rosellini.  Doodang   In American folklore, a mythical  creature who wished to swim and then fly and  was never satisfied. Finally, given wings, he  flew, failed, and died.  See also:   uncle remus  Doris   (bountiful)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  sea goddess, daughter of Oceanus and Tethys;  sister of Eidyia, Electra, Clymene, Meliboea,  Metis, Perseis, Pleione, Proteus, Styk, Europa,  Clytia, and Callirrhoë, the rivers and foun -  tains; wife of the sea-god Nereus; mother of  Doris   323

=== 페이지 341 ===
50 daughters, called Nereids or Dorides, and  in some myths mother of Amphitrite, Galatea,  and Thetis.  See also:   amphitrite; callirrhoë; electra;  galatea; nereids; oceanus; thetis  Dorothy, St.   (Dorothea)   (gift of God)   (third  century?)   In Christian legend, patron saint of  brewers, brides, florists, gardeners, midwives,  and newly married couples. Feast, 6 February.  Her life is contained in   The Golden Legend,  a collection of saints’ lives written in the 13th  century by Jacobus de Voragine. Dorothy was  tortured by Fabricius, governor of Caesarea,  Cappadocia, for refusing to marry and to wor -  ship idols. As she was on her way to execution a  young lawyer, Theophilus, mocked her: “Send  me some of the fruit and flowers from that  garden you speak of,” he said, “where you are  going to your bridegroom!” “Thy request is  granted,” the young saint replied.  When she was about to die, an angel or  the Christ Child appeared to her with a bas -  ket of three apples and three roses. She then  asked that they be carried to Theophilus as she  had promised. The angel or the Christ Child  appeared to Theophilus and gave him the bas -  ket. Theophilus then became a Christian and  later met his death for being one. In Christian  art St. Dorothy is portrayed with the Christ  Child and the basket of fruit and flowers, as in  Francesco di Giorgio’s charming painting of  the subject. The story forms the basis for Philip  Massinger’s tragedy   The Virgin Martyr   (1620).  See also:   golden legend, the  Dosojin   (earth ancestor god, road ancestor  god)   In Japanese Shinto mythology, phallic  god, protector of roads and travelers, invoked  to ensure abundance in agriculture and human  reproduction. One of his most popular forms is  as Sarutahiko (monkey rice field prince).  Douban   Physician who killed King Younan  in the “Story of the Physician Douban,” a tale  in   The Thousand and One Nights   (nights 4, 5,  and 6, with interruptions from other tales in  the collection).  A physician named Douban cured a Persian  king, Younan, of leprosy. But because of the  whispers of a vizier, the king suspected that  the physician wished to kill him. When he  ordered the death of the physician, the man  pleaded for some time to straighten out his  home and books, many of which were valuable.  The king agreed. The next day, after the amirs  and viziers and chamberlains had gathered at  the court, the physician entered, “bearing an  old book, and a small pot full of powder.” He  told the king that when his head was cut off it  would speak to the king if the king placed the  head on the powder to stop the bleeding. The  king should then open the book and read from  where the head directed him. The king took  St. Dorothy  324   Dorothy, St.

=== 페이지 342 ===
the book and gave the signal to the executioner,  “who rose and struck off the physician’s head  and set it on the dish, pressing it down on the  powder.”   The   blood   immediately   ceased   to  flow. The head opened its eyes and said: “Open  the book, O King!”  Younan opened the book and found the  leaves stuck together, so he put his finger to  his mouth, taking his “spittle and loosened  them therewith and turned over the pages in  this manner, one after another.” Eventually, he  cried out that there was nothing there to see.  The head said: “Open more leaves.” The king  wet his finger and continued. The leaves of the  book were poisoned and before long the poison  began to work upon the king. He fell back in  convulsions crying out: “I am poisoned!”  See also:   thousand and one nights, the  dove   A small bird resembling a pigeon, often  used as a symbol of peace (secular) or the Holy  Spirit (religious). The Near Eastern goddess  Astarte and the Greek goddess Aphrodite had  doves   sacrificed   to   them   in   their   temples.  One Greek myth tells of the origin of the  doves that drew Aphrodite’s chariot. Eros and  Aphrodite were picking flowers in a contest  to see who could pick the most. Eros was  winning when two nymphs began to aid the  goddess. Indignant, Eros changed the nymphs  into doves. Aphrodite then had them draw her  chariot as a reward.  In early Christian legend a dove descended  on the staff of St. Joseph to indicate that he was  to be the husband of Mary. In another early  Christian legend Joachim and Anna, parents of  the Virgin, dreamed of a dove before her birth.  In the Gospel According to Mark (1:9–11) a  dove descends to Jesus when he is baptized, and  the dove is the Holy Spirit. As symbol of the  Holy Spirit the dove is often seen in art portray -  ing saints noted for their spiritual writings. It  also appears in paintings of the Annunciation to  the Blessed Virgin. In Moslem folklore the dove  is also a symbol of the Holy Spirit. According to  one legend, a dove used to feed out of the ear of  Muhammed. His followers said it was the Holy  Spirit giving the prophet advice. Shakespeare’s  Henry VI, Part I   (1.2) refers to this belief in a  mocking tone: “Was Mahomet inspired with  a dove?” There are numerous motifs associ -  ated with the dove in the   Motif Index of Folk  Literature.  See also:   aphrodite; astarte; eros; joseph,  st.; muhammad  drac   In French folklore, a spirit in human  form   who   lives   in   the   caverns   of   rivers.  Sometimes   dracs   will float like golden cups  along a stream to entice bathers, but when the  bather attempts to catch one, the   drac   draws  him under water.  Dracula   (c. 1431–1476)   In eastern European  history and legend, popular name of Vlad the  Impaler, a Romanian tyrant who is known in  folklore and literature as a vampire.  Dracula   325  Dove, symbol of the Holy Spirit  ( The Annunciation , 1511, Albrecht Dürer)

=== 페이지 343 ===
Various theories have been advanced about  the truth of Vlad the Impaler, or Vlad Tepes,  who lived in Walachia, a region south of Transyl -  vania. An official Romanian Communist govern -  ment tourist agency claimed: “The real Dracula  fought for the cause of the Romanian people.”  Older legend has credited this “hero” of the  people with the most horrendous deeds. In Ger -  man, Russian, Hungarian, and Italian folklore,  the deeds of Dracula are copiously recorded,  though no mention is made of his vampirism.  A few of the legends surrounding the sadis -  tic tyrant tell how he punished those who in  any way offended him. For example, when a  group of Turkish envoys did not remove their  turbans in his presence, he had their turbans  nailed to their heads. Dracula often dined out -  doors amid the screams of his impaled victims,  hung on stakes around the dinner table. Once  a guest complained of the stench of the decay -  ing bodies. Dracula had the guest impaled on  a stake much higher than the other victims,  so that he might die out of the range of their  stench. Another tale tells how Dracula invited  some beggars into his castle, fed them, and told  them he could end all of their troubles if they  wished. They agreed, and he had them shut  indoors and burned alive.  However, in modern folklore Dracula is noted  for his vampirism, tales of which stem from Bram  Stoker’s novel   Dracula.   Stoker’s novel was used as  the basis of numerous films, beginning with a  silent film,   Nosferatu,   and continuing through  many versions, including the classic   Dracula   star -  ring Bela Lugosi, who became identified with  the role in movies.   The Fearless Vampire Killers  by the Polish director Roman Polanski gives  Dracula the name Count Von Krolock, but he  retains all of the characteristics of the old vam -  pire count. Recently Norine Dresser published a  study called   American Vampires.  See also:   vampire  dragon   A   fantastic   beast   that   appears   in  world mythology and folklore as either demon -  ic or beneficent. In most European mytholo -  gies the dragon is viewed as a demonic beast,  usually a winged crocodile with a serpent’s tail.  In Christian symbolism the dragon is the devil,  as in the Book of Revelation (20:2), where  Satan is referred to as the “Great Dragon.”  The Christian devil is derived from the dragon  in the Old Testament, who in turn is derived  from Tiamet, the Babylonian female dragon  monster. The most famous encounter between  a Christian and dragon is that of St. George  and the dragon. He slays the dragon or tames  the animal and frees the maiden. In Norse  mythology the dragon appears as Fafnir, a giant  who changed himself into dragon to guard the  gold that he had stolen.  In Oriental mythologies the dragon is seen  as a beneficent animal. In China the emperor’s  throne was referred to as the Dragon’s Throne  and his face as the Dragon’s Face. At the emper -  or’s death it was said he ascended to heaven like a  dragon. As a dragon ascends to heaven, the pres -  sure of its feet on the clouds causes rain. Lung  Wang is the Chinese dragon-king and super -  natural rainmaker. One of the most common  motifs in Chinese art is the dragon with its claws  outstretched, reaching for a disk. Some explain  the disk as the sun, which the dragon tries to  swallow; being a watery creature, it wishes to  drown the heat of the day. Others see the disk as  a pearl or the moon. The dragon is one of the  four constellations in Chinese astronomy. There  Dragon  326   dragon

=== 페이지 344 ===
are numerous motifs associated with dragons in  the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See   also:   bible   (revelation);   fafnir;  george, st.; lung wang; uther pendragon  Draupadi   In   the   Hindu   epic   poem   The  Mahabharata,   the   common   wife   of   the   five  Pandu princes.  Draupadi, daughter of King Draupada of  Panchala, was of dark complexion and great  beauty, “as radiant and graceful as if she had  descended from the city of the gods.” (In a  former existence she had been the daughter of  a sage.) She performed a most severe penance  in order that she might have a husband. The  god Shiva, pleased with her devotion, said:  “You shall have five husbands; for five times  you said, ‘Give me a husband.’ Her father, King  Draupada, held a   svayamvara,   a tournament in  which the princess would choose for herself a  husband from among the contestants. Arjuna  was selected from among the many suitors on  account of his skill in archery.  When he and his four brothers returned  home, they told their mother, Kunti, that they  had made a great acquisition. Kunti replied that  they should share it among themselves. The  command of a mother could not be opposed,  so the sage Vyasa settled the matter by hav -  ing Draupadi “become the wife of all of the  brethren.” It was arranged that she should stay  two days in the house of each brother, and no  other brother should enter that house while she  was there. Although she was shared by all the  brothers, Draupadi loved Arjuna and displayed  jealousy when he married Su-bhadra.  See also:   arjuna;   mahabharata, the ; shiva;  su-bhadra  dreamtime   In   Australian   mythology,   the  primeval past when spirits, gods, and ancestors  walked on earth. A person’s “dreaming” is his  or her share of the myths, rites, and historical  traditions of the “eternal” dreamtime.  Drithelm,   St.   (died   c.   700)   In   Christian  legend, monk. Feast, 1 September. Drithelm  was seized with a fatal illness and died in 693,  but before he was buried he arose from the  dead and told his wife and children he had vis -  ited hell, Purgatory, and heaven. He then left  his family and went to live as a monk. St. Bede  tells his tale in his   History of the English People.  See also:   bede the venerable, st.  Drona   (a bucket)   In the Hindu epic poem  The Mahabharata,   a priest who was generated  in a bucket by his father, Bharadwaja. Drona  taught archery to both the Pandavas and the  Kauravas. When the great war broke out, how -  ever, Drona sided with the Kauravas, eventu -  ally becoming commander-in-chief. When he  received news that his son had been killed, he  was so upset that an enemy cut off his head  while he was distracted with grief.  See also:   mahabharata, the  Drugaskan   In   Persian   mythology,   section  of hell filled with darkness and evil. Located  “at the bottom of the gloomy existence,” it is  the lowest section of hell. Drugaskan is also the  name of the son of the evil spirit, Ahriman, in  Persian mythology.  See also:   ahriman  Druids   (wise men of the woods)   Priests of  Druidism, the name given to the religion of the  ancient Celts as practiced in Gaul and Britain.  It is said that the Druids ate acorns to make  themselves ready for prophecy.  The function of a Druid was described by  Julius Caesar in   The Gallic Wars   (book 6). He  wrote that Gallic society had two main classes:  the warriors, or knights, and the Druids. The  Druids “officiate at divine worship, regulate sac -  rifices public and private, and expound questions  of ritual. Numbers of young men resort to them  for study and hold them in high respect. They  are judges in nearly all disputes, whether public  or private, and in cases of crimes or murders or  disputes about inheritances or boundaries, they  Druids   32 

=== 페이지 345 ===
settle the matter and fix awards and penalties.  And those who do not abide by their decision,  whether an individual or a tribe, they excom -  municate, and this is their severest penalty.   .   .   .  As a rule Druids keep aloof from war, and do not  pay taxes with the rest. They are exempt from  military service and all obligation.”  They had many gods, but Dis Pater was  the father god from whom the Gauls claimed  descent.   The   Druids   observed   two   festivals  each year. One, Beltaine (fire of god), was in  honor of the sun and was held at the beginning  of May; at the other, Samh’in (fire of peace), at  the beginning of November, judicial functions  were dealt with.  The concept of the Druids in literature  and music has very little to do with any of  the known facts culled from ancient sources.  During the 18th century Druidism was greatly  romanticized, with some English writers claim -  ing that the Druids were descendants of Ash -  kenaz, eldest son of Gomer and great grandson  of the biblical Noah. Others believed that the  Druids were one of the 10 lost tribes of Israel.  William Blake, the English poet and painter,  found many of these ideas congenial to his own  mythmaking. He wrote in “Jerusalem” that  Adam, Noah, and other patriarchs were actu -  ally Druids, with Britain being “the Primitive  Seat of the Patriarchal Religion,” to which the  Druid temples and oak groves in Britain were  a “witness to this day.” In the same poem Blake  credits   the   Druids   with   inventing   “female  chastity.” This concept of Druid vestal virgins  is best known through the Italian opera   Norma  (1821) by Vincenzo Bellini with a libretto by  Felice Romani. The work tells how Norma,  the high priestess of the Druid temple of Esus,  breaks her vow of virginity by bearing the  Roman soldier Pollione two sons. At the end  Norma confesses her sin to her people, saying  she must be sacrificed. Both Norma and Pol -  lione then enter the funeral pyre. In modern  literature James Joyce mentions the Druids  several times in his novel   Ulysses.  See also:   beltaine; ossian; samh’in  dryads   (oak nymphs)   In Greek mythology,  wood nymphs who lived in trees; also called  hamadryads. They died when the tree died.  Pope’s   Moral Essays   (book 4.94) and Keats’s  “Ode to a Nightingale” cite the dryads.  Dryope   (oaken face)   In Greek mythology,  a name for various women. According to the  Homeric Hymn to Pan   (attributed to Homer  but not by him), one, a nymph of Arcadia,  was the mother of Pan by Hermes. In Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 9) Dryope was a woman  married to Andraemon, and she was raped by  Apollo. The god first appeared as a turtle that  Dryope picked up, but suddenly it was trans -  formed into a serpent, which frightened the  hamadryads who were companions of Dryope.  Apollo then appeared in his human form and  seduced Dryope. Their child was Amphisusus.  When a year old the child was transformed,  along with Dryope, into a lotus as a punish -  ment for picking flowers from a tree that was  the name of the nymph Lotis. Another Dryope  was a nymph, mother of Tarquitus by Faunus  in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 10). Dryope was also  the name of a woman of Lemnos whose shape  the goddess Aphrodite assumed to persuade the  women on the island to murder all of the men.  See   also:   aeneid, the;   apollo; hermes;  lotus; ovid; pan  Dsajaga   In   Siberian   mythology,   spirit   who  rules over the fate of the individual. It is closely  connected with the sky god Tengri, who also  watches over the fate of man. In   The Chronicle  of Ssangang Ssetsen   Ghengis Khan is said to have  been born through “the Dsajaga of the blue,  eternal sky.” Not only rulers were born under  Dsajaga, however, but peasants as well. In laws  written by Mongolian rulers, the phrase “by the  Dsajaga of the eternal sky” is used, instead of the  formula “by the Grace of God,” so often found in  Western documents. Each person is believed to  have a special ruler over his life, called Dzajagatsi.  Often the term Dzajagatsi Tengri is used.  See also:   tengri  32    dryads

=== 페이지 346 ===
Dryad   (Elizabeth Shipper Green)  Dsajaga   32 

=== 페이지 347 ===
Duat   (Tuat)   In   Egyptian   mythology,   the  underworld or other world. Originally, Duat  signified the place through which the sun god  Ra passed each evening after his setting, or  death, on his journey to that portion of the  sky where he would appear the next morn -  ing. Although generally called the underworld,  Duat was not believed to be situated under the  earth but rather away from the earth, in a part  of the sky where the gods resided. It was the  realm of the great god Osiris, who reigned over  all other gods of the dead as well as the dead  themselves. Duat was separated from the world  by a range of mountains that surrounded it,  forming a great valley. On one side the moun -  tains separated the valley from the earth and  on the other side, the valley from the heavens.  Through Duat ran a river that was the coun -  terpart of the Nile in Egypt and of the celestial  Nile in heaven, and on each bank of this river  lived a vast number of beasts and devils who  were hostile to any being that invaded the val -  ley. Duat was further divided into 12 sections,  or   nomes,   each of which corresponded to one of  the hours of the night.  According to one Egyptian text,   The Book of  Pylons,   Duat is a long, narrow valley with sandy  slopes, divided into two equal parts by a river  on which the boat of the sun sails. Each of the  12 sections, or   nomes,   of the valley has its own  demons, or ordeals, that the deceased has to  pass in order to be worthy of life with Osiris.  The same concept is used in Mozart’s opera  The Magic Flute,   in which the hero, Tamino,  undergoes a series of ordeals instituted by the  high priest Sarastro in order to be worthy to  praise Isis and Osiris.  Duat is sometimes called Ta-dchesert (the  holy   land),   Neter-khertet,   or   Khert   Neter  (divine subterranean place).  See also:   isis; osiris; ra  Dudugera   In   Melanesian   mythology,   the  sun, according to a myth from New Guinea.  Once a woman played with a fish that rubbed  itself against her leg. In time her leg swelled,  and when it was cut open, a baby, Dudugera,  appeared. The young Dudugera did not get  along with his playmates, so one day his great  fish father came and took him away. Before he  left, he told his mother and relatives to hide  under a big rock because he was going to climb  up to the sky on a plant and become the sun.  They did as he asked. When Dudugera became  the sun, his heat rays were destroying all plant  and animal life until his mother threw some lime  juice in his face. From that day clouds appeared,  relieving the earth from the sun’s heat.  dugong   In Islamic mythology, herbivorous  aquatic man of the Red Sea, the Indian Ocean,  and   the   waters   around   Australia.   In   Malay  mythology it is believed to have sprung from  the remains of a pig on which Muhammad  himself had dined before he pronounced pork  to be cursed. It was cast into the sea by the  prophet but revived and took the shape of the  dugong. The tears of the dugong are believed  to be a strong love charm. The dugong is also  called a sea cow and may be an origin of mer -  maids in mythology.  See also:   muhammad  Dumah   (Douma) (silence?)   In Jewish folk -  lore, an angel of death to whom one has to  give account. Isaac Bashevis Singer, in his short  story “Short Friday,” tells of a husband and  a wife who discover they have died and are  thinking about what is going to happen to the  Sabbath meal they have just prepared. They  realize, however, that they have to wait for the  angel Dumah “with his fiery staff” and “give an  account” of themselves to him. In their still -  ness they hear “the flapping of wings” and a  “quiet singing” as they are taken to paradise.  In Genesis (25:14) Dumah is a son of Ishmael  and the presumed ancestor of an Arabian tribe.  Dumah is also the name given to the guardian  of the 14th gate, through which the goddess  Ishtar passed on her journey to the underworld  in Babylonian mythology.  See also:   ishmael; ishtar  330   Duat

=== 페이지 348 ===
Dun Cow   In British legend, a fantastic cow  slain by Sir Guy of Warwick on Dunsmore  Heath. The Dun Cow was kept by a giant in  Mitchel   Fold   (middle   fold),   Shropshire.   Its  milk was inexhaustible. One day an old woman  who had filled her pail with its milk wanted to  fill her sieve also, but this so enraged the cow  that it broke away and wandered to Dunsmore,  where it was killed. A huge tusk, probably from  an elephant, is still shown at Harwick Castle as  one of the horns of the Dun Cow.  See also:   guy of warwick, sir  Duns   Scotus,   Joannes   (1265–1308?)   In  Christian legend, Franciscan theologian who  supported   the   doctrine   of   the   Immaculate  Conception (that the Virgin Mary was born  without   Original   Sin)   against   St.   Thomas  Aquinas, who opposed the doctrine. His follow -  ers were called Dunsers or Dunsmen. Tyndal  says when they saw the new theology devel -  oping, “the old barking curs raged in every  pulpit” against the new notions. The name for  his followers passed into the language as   dunce  because so much time was spent in his scholas -  tic philosophy on “nonsense.” Duns Scotus is  also known as Doctor Subtilis.  See also:   thomas aquinas, st.; virgin mary  Dunstan, St.   (hill stone)   In Christian leg -  end, archbishop of Canterbury, patron saint  of blacksmiths, armorers, goldsmiths, lock -  smiths, musicians, and the blind. Feast, 19  May.  A monk of Glastonbury, Dunstan was a  noted   scholar,   musician,   painter   (his   self-  Ruins of the abbey at Glastonbury, the home of St. Dunstan  Dunstan, St.   33 

=== 페이지 349 ===
portrait at the foot of Christ is still preserved  at the Bodleian Library, Oxford), and metal -  worker. As a young man he was a great favor -  ite of King Edmund, who admired his musical  talents. He had such a strong influence over  the king that he was accused of sorcery and  driven from the court. One day, as the king  was stag hunting, his dogs leaped over a preci -  pice. The king thought he would be unable to  rein his horse and would also fall. He prayed  and thought of his ill treatment of Dunstan,  and the horse stopped on the brink. The king  then begged Dunstan to return to his court.  One legend tells how the devil asked St.  Dunstan to shoe his “single hoof.” He realized  who his customer was, tied him to the wall, and  proceeded. He caused the devil so much pain  that he cried out for mercy. Dunstan agreed,  but on the condition that the devil would never  enter a place where a horseshoe was displayed.  Another legend tells how Dunstan outwitted  the devil. He was making a chalice to use at  Mass when the devil suddenly appeared before  him. The saint, however, was not afraid. He  took the pincers out of the fire and seized the  nose of the devil, who ran off howling and  never again bothered the saint. An old poem  commemorates the event:  St. Dunstan, as the story goes,  Once pulled the devil by the nose  With red-hot tongs, which made him roar  That he was heard three miles or more.  In Christian art St. Dunstan is portrayed as  a bishop holding a pair of tongs.  Duppies   In Haitian voodoo, evil spirits of  the dead.  Durán, Fray Diego   (c. 1537—1588)   Span -  ish historian who did missionary work in Latin  America. Author of three works dealing with  Aztec history and mythology:   Book of the Gods  and Rites,   giving a detailed description of Aztec  gods;   The   Ancient   Calendar,   a   guide   to   the  Mesoamerican system of counting time; and  Historia de las Indias de Nueva España y islas  de tierra firme,   which tells the history of the  Aztecs from their beginnings to their fall in  1521 at the hands of the Spanish. The   Historia  also contains numerous references to the reli -  gious and mythological beliefs of the Aztecs.  Duranki   (the bond that unites heaven and  earth)   Ancient name for Nippur, a Sumerian  city sacred to the god Enlil. According to myth,  Enlil split the earth’s crust with his pickax  at Nippur so that the first man could break  through to the upper earth.  See also:   enlil  Dur-yodhana   (hard   to   conquer)   In   the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata,   a leader  of   the   Kauravas   against   their   enemies,   the  Pandavas.   Dur-yodhana   battled   Bhima,   one  of the five Pandu princes. Bhima kicked Dur-  yodhana in the head and left him mortally  wounded. Duryodhana then asked his men to  slay all of the Pandavas and bring Bhima’s head  to him before he died. Some Kauravas entered  the Pandava camp and killed five young sons  of the Pandavas. Their heads were brought to  Dur-yodhana, who was told they were the five  Pandu princes. In the twilight Dur-yodhana  was unable to tell the difference. When he  asked for Bhima’s head, one of the children’s  heads was given to him, and he crushed it.  Because it was so easily crushed, he knew it  could not be the head of Bhima. He cried out:  “My   enmity   was   against   the   Pandavas,   not  against   these   innocents.”   Dur-yodhana   died  shortly afterward of the wound inflicted by  Bhima. Dur-yodhana was also called Su-yod -  hana (good fighter).  See also:   bhima;   mahabharata, the  Dushan   the   Mighty   (c.   1308–1355)   In  Serbian   legend,   emperor   crowned   in   1346.  Stefan Dushan ruled medieval Serbia at the  peak of its power, consolidating and expanding  the realm to include Albania, Bulgaria, Epirus,  332   Duppies

=== 페이지 350 ===
Macedonia, and northern Greece. Author of the  Law Code (1349 and 1354), Stefan also became  an important folk hero in Serbian heroic epic  ballads. Noteworthy is   The Wedding of Stefan  Dushan,   first   collected   by   Vuk   Stefanovich  Karadzich in 1815.  See also:   karadzich, vuk stefanovich  Dustin,   Hannah   ( 1657–after   1729)   In  U.S.   history   and   folklore,   New   England  pioneer   woman   captured,   along   with   her  young son, by Indians in 1697. Eventually  she and her son escaped after having killed  and scalped ten of their captors. In Robert  P. Tristram Coffin’s ballad “The Lady of the  Tomahawk” she scalps 20 braves.  Dvalin   In Norse mythology, a dwarf who  gave to the dwarfs magic runes that made them  skillful in crafts. The kenning for poetry is  “Dvalin’s drink” because the mead of poetry was  in the possession of the dwarfs. Dvalin, along  with Alfrigga, Berling, and Grerr, possessed  the magic necklace of the Brislings, which the  goddess Freyja wanted. She agreed to sleep one  night with each dwarf to gain the necklace. In  some accounts Dvalin is said to be the father  of the Norns, who dispense fate. Dvalin is also  the name of one of the harts at the foot of the  world or cosmic tree, Yggdrasill.  See also:   kenning; norns; yggdrasill  Dwyvan and Dwyvach   In Celtic mythology,  the man and woman who built the ark   Nefyed  Nevion   in the Welsh account of the flood. The  flood was caused by the monster Addanc.  See also:   bith and birren; cessair: noah  Dyaus and Prithivi   (shine and broad)   In  early Hindu mythology, the sky god and the  earth goddess; Dyaus is often called the “vigor -  ous god” and Prithivi, “the heroic female.” In  many texts they are represented as the univer -  sal parents, not only of men but of the gods.  Among their offspring were the storm god,  Indra; Ushas, the dawn; and Agni, the fire god.  One text asks: “Which of these two was first  and which last? How have they been produced?  Who knows?”  See also:   agni; indra  dybbuk   (attachment)   In Jewish folklore, the  disembodied spirit of a dead person who can -  not find rest, often owing to his sin. The most  famous dramatic work on the subject is   The  Dybbuk   by S. Ansky. In it a rabbinical student,  Khonnon, turns into a dybbuk when he dies  because he invoked Satan in order to win his  love, Leye. He had been forbidden by her  father, Sender, to marry her because he did not  possess wealth. At the end of the play Leye,  who has been possessed by Khonnon’s spirit, is  freed; she dies, and her spirit joins Khonnon’s.  A ballet by Leonard Bernstein titled   The Dybbuk  also deals with the folkloric spirit.  See also:   satan  Dylan   (son of the wave)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, a sea god, son of Gwydion and Arianrhod,  twin   brother   of   Llewllaw.   Dylan   was   slain  by his uncle, Govannon, and a loud lament  was made for him by the waves, his burial  place being where their murmur sounds sul -  lenly along the seacoast. Legend has it that  Arianrhod gave birth immediately after step -  ping over Gwydion’s magic wand.  See also:   arianrhod; gwydion; llew llaw  gyffes  Dzelarhons   In   North   American   Indian  mythology (North Pacific Coast Indians), her -  oine who, accompanied by six canoes filled  with   people   during   their   migrations   across  the Aleutian Islands, came to marry and settle  with Kaiti, the bear god, chief of the Grizzlies.  However, her husband did not have sexual  intercourse with her for the first four nights  of their marriage. When her uncle Githawn  (salmon eater) was told of this, he made war on  Kaiti and his tribe. When Githawn searched for  Dzelarhons, all he found was a stone statue of  her. Dzelarhons is called the Copper Woman,  Dzelarhons   333

=== 페이지 351 ===
Volcano Woman, Frog Woman, or Copper  Frog, depending on which tribe tells the story.  Dziady   (ancestors)   In Slavic folklore, ances -  tor   spirits.   The   White   Russians   honor   the  Dziady four times a year, at home or at church -  yard ceremonies. The autumn celebration is  connected   with   the   harvest   and   the   spring  celebration with Easter, when eggs (symbols of  resurrection) are rolled and Christian priests  bless the graves. In Bulgaria the ancestor spirits  are called Zadusnica.  See also:   easter  Dziwozony   (wild women)   In Polish folk -  lore, wild women who have cold hearts but  are extremely passionate. They are tall with  thin faces and long disheveled hair. They fling  their breasts over their shoulders in order to  run. If they come upon an adult in the forest,  the Dziwozony usually tickle the person to  death. Younger people are often made their  lovers. The Diva-ta-Zena in Bulgarian folklore  is similar to the Polish version. She, how -  ever, throws her breasts over her shoulders to  nurse her children. Sometimes the Dziwozony  will substitute a   premien,   or changeling, for a  human child.  Dzoavits   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Shoshonean), an evil monster and a canni -  bal giant. Dzoavits stole two of Dove’s children.  With the aid of Eagle, Dove saved the two, but  Dzoavits would not give up and continued to  pursue the group. Dzoavits was close upon them  when Badger intervened. He dug two holes and  had Dove and his children hide in one. When  Dzoavits asked Badger where Dove and his  children were, Badger pointed to the other hole.  The monster quickly went into the hole, and  just as quickly, Badger threw in some hot rocks  and then sealed the hole with a stone.  334   Dziady

=== 페이지 352 ===
6  335  Ea   (Hea, Hoa)   In Near Eastern mythology  (Sumero-Akkadian), god of sweet waters, earth,  and wisdom; patron of the arts; one of the cre -  ators of humankind; also called Enki.  In the Babylonian epic poem   Enuma Elish,  Ea is given credit for creation:  Who but Ea created things?  And Ea knoweth everything.  In   a   much   later   text   the   myth   of   Ea’s  appearance to help mankind is told. The god  appeared as “an animal endowed with reason,”  aving a body “like that of a fish; and had under  a fish’s head another head, and also feet below,  similar to those of men, subjoined to the fish’s  tail.” This mysterious animal was “articulate”  and spoke like a human, teaching men “every  kind   of   art.   He   taught   them   to   construct  houses, to found temples, and to compile laws  and explained to them principles of geometri -  cal knowledge.” Ea also taught mankind how to  till the earth and “how to collect fruits   .   .   . he  instructed them in everything which could tend  to soften manners and humanize mankind.”  Ea’s chief seat of worship was at Eridu, an  old Sumerian city at the top of the Persian Gulf.  His wife was the goddess Damkina, and his son  was Marduk. In art his symbol was either a  ram’s or a goat’s head, with the body of a fish.  Copper was his metal. Ea was also known an  Enki, “lord of the world,” and Oannes.  See also:   damkina; marduk  eagle   A   large   bird   of   prey   noted   for   its  strength and vision, often associated with sky  gods. In Greek mythology the eagle was sacred  to the sky god Zeus, who often took eagle form  in his sexual adventures. When Zeus fell in love  with the Trojan boy Ganymede he took the  form of an eagle, swooped down, and abducted  the boy. The eagle was also adopted as a sym -  bol of the Roman sky god Jupiter, or Jove.  The eagle as an imperial symbol appeared on  Austrian and Russian heraldic devices. When  e  Eagle

=== 페이지 353 ===
the United States chose the bald eagle for the  new nation’s symbol, Benjamin Franklin dis -  agreed with the choice. He wrote to his daugh -  ter that the bird was a “rank coward” and had a  “bad moral character; he does not get his living  honestly.” Franklin wanted the turkey to be  chosen instead. The eagle is also a symbol of the  Aztec god Tonatiuh and the Norse god Odin.  In Christian symbolism the eagle is often a  symbol of Christ. Dante’s   The Divine Comedy  calls the eagle the bird of God. St. John the  Evangelist is often portrayed as an eagle or  with an eagle companion because his Gospel  account was considered by the Church Fathers  the   most   elevated   and   spiritual   of   all   four  accounts. Nietzsche, the 19th-century German  philosopher and despiser of Christianity, chose  the eagle as one of the animal companions of  the Solitary Sage in   Thus Spake Zarathustra.  The   other   animal   companion   is   the   snake.  Nietzsche calls the eagle and the snake the  “proudest and the shrewdest among animals.”  Both   animals   appear   on   the   Mexican   flag.  There are numerous motifs associated with the  eagle in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   ganymede; john the evangelist,  st.; jove; odin; tonatiuh; zeus  Eagle and the Arrow, The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world, possibly of Eastern origin.  One day a bowman saw an eagle soaring  lazily in the sky. Quickly, he notched an arrow  and sent it whizzing after the bird. It found its  mark, and the eagle felt itself wounded to death.  As it slowly fluttered down to earth, it saw that  the haft of the arrow that had pierced its breast  was fitted with one of its own feathers.  Moral:   How often do we supply our enemies  with the means of our own destruction!  George Gordon Byron, in his   English Bards  and Scotch Reviewers,   a satirical poem in heroic  couplets that lambastes such poets as Southey,  Scott, Wordsworth, and Coleridge and praises  Pope and Dryden, has an allusion to the fable  of   The Eagle and the Arrow :  So the struck eagle, stretch’d upon the  plain,  No more through rolling clouds to soar  again,  View’d his own feather on the fatal dart,  And wing’d the shaft that quiver’d in his  heart.  Byron got the idea from Edmund Waller’s poem  To a Lady Singing a Song of His Composing.   The  fable is also told in La Fontaine’s collection.  See   also:   aesopic fables; la fontaine,  jean de  Earth   Diver   In   North   American   Indian  mythology, an account of the origin of the  world. The culture hero dives repeatedly into  primeval waters, or flood waters, to obtain mud  or sand from which the earth is to be formed.  Various aquatic animals are sent down into the  waters that completely cover the earth. Each one  fails, but the last one, either a beaver, hell diver,  crawfish, or mink, succeeds, floating half dead  to the surface. He has a little sand or mud under  his claws. The mud is then placed on the surface  of the water and magically expands to become  the world as we know it. The Earth Diver myth  is one of eight myths among North American  Indians that have counterparts in Europe and  Asia and were brought to the New World by  people migrating to North America via north -  eastern Asia and Alaska, or from southeastern  Asia by way of the Pacific islands to Meso-  America. These creation myths treat the origin  of the world, its inhabitants, the emergence of  humans, the spider as creator, and so on.  See   also:   ataensic;   bunjil;   dayunsi;  hurakan; kumokums  Earthly Paradise, The   In medieval mythol -  ogy, a land or island where everything was beau -  tiful and restful, where death and decay were  unknown. The Earthly Paradise was usually  located far away to the east. William Morris’s  long poem   The Earthly Paradise   tells how a  party of adventurers leave a Scandinavian port  336   Eagle and the Arrow, The

=== 페이지 354 ===
Easter   33   during a pestilence to search for the Earthly  Paradise. After many adventures the remnant  of the band discovers the land.  See also:   schlaraffenland  Easter   In Christianity, feast celebrating the  Resurrection of Christ from the dead. The  English name   Easter   was explained by St. Bede  the Venerable as coming from the Anglo-Saxon  goddess Eostre, who was associated with the  season of new birth. Some modern scholars,  however, contend that St. Bede misread the  Anglo-Saxon word for spring, thinking it was  an ancient pagan goddess.  Easter falls on the first Sunday after the full  moon that occurs on the day of the vernal equi -  nox (21 March) or on any of the next 28 days.  Easter Day cannot be earlier than 22 March  or later than 25 April. The date for Easter was  fixed by the Council of Nicaea in 325, though  various Christian groups still celebrate it at  different times. Until the Roman church made  headway in Britain during the Middle Ages,  the Celtic church celebrated Easter at a time  different from that of the Roman observance.  Numerous battles were fought over the proper  date, but eventually the stronger Roman posi -  tion (it was backed by the pope and the rest of  Western Christendom) won out.  Medieval documents often mention Easter  as the beginning of the new year, especially  in France, where it was so until 1563. At Eas -  ter time the Roman emperors, starting with  Valentinian   in   367,   released   nondangerous  criminals from prison. This custom was fol -  lowed by medieval popes, emperors, and kings  for centuries.  The preparation for Easter season, begin -  ning on Ash Wednesday and continuing for a  week after Easter Day, was filled with pagan  customs that had been revised in the light of  Christianity.   Germanic   nations,   for   example,  set bonfires in spring. This custom was frowned  on by the Church, which tried to suppress it.  But when Irish monks in the sixth and seventh  centuries came to Germany, they brought their  earlier pagan rites and would bless bonfires out -  side the church building on Holy Saturday. The  custom spread to France, and eventually it was  incorporated into the Easter liturgy of Rome in  the ninth century. Even today the blessing of the  new fire is part of the Vigil of Easter.  It was a custom during Easter celebration  in the Middle Ages to raise the Host, or the  cross, from the shrine of the sepulcher during  the night of Holy Saturday. A figure of the dead  Christ was also kept in the church from Holy  Thursday until Holy Saturday, and the faithful  would sit with it as at a wake.  Medieval celebrations of Easter began at  dawn. According to one old legend, the sun  dances   on   Easter   morning   or   makes   three  jumps at the moment of its rising in honor of  Christ’s Resurrection. The rays of light pen -  etrating the clouds were believed to be angels  dancing for joy.  Part of the medieval Easter rites consisted  of the sequence   Victimae Paschali Laudes   (Praise  to   the   Paschal   Victim),   written   by   Wipo,   a  priest who about 1030 was court chaplain of the  emperor Conrad. The poem, which was placed  in the Latin Mass for Easter, is believed to have  been the inspiration for miracle plays that devel -  oped from the 10th century on. (However, schol -  ars still debate the origin of medieval drama.) In  time plays dealing with Christmas, Epiphany,  and other Christian feasts were written.  Some Easter folk traditions that have sur -  vived today are the Easter egg, rabbit, and  lamb. During medieval times it was a tradition  to give eggs at Easter to servants. King Edward  I of England had 450 eggs boiled before Easter  and dyed or covered with gold leaf. He then  gave them to members of the royal household  on Easter day. Eating of eggs was forbidden  during Lent but allowed again on Easter Day.  The egg was an earlier pagan symbol of rebirth  and was presented at the spring equinox, the  beginning of the pagan new year.  The Easter rabbit is first mentioned in a  German book of 1572 and also was a pagan  fertility symbol. The Easter lamb goes back

=== 페이지 355 ===
to the Middle Ages; the lamb, holding a flag  with a red cross on a white field, represented  the resurrected Christ. A prayer for blessing  lambs can be traced to the seventh century  in Italy. In the ninth century Rome adopted  the prayer, and a roasted lamb was part of the  pope’s dinner for Easter. It was believed lucky  to meet a lamb during Easter time because the  devil could assume any animal shape but one,  the lamb, for the lamb was a symbol of Christ.  Medieval Easter week was one long celebra -  tion. One Spanish missal of the ninth century  has Mass texts for three masses each day of the  Easter Octave. Gradually, however, the church  reduced the celebration to three days. Since  many people were baptized on Holy Saturday,  they wore new white garments, from which we  still have the custom of new clothes for Easter.  Monday and Tuesday of Easter week in  northern countries were the traditional days of  “drenching” and “switching,” customs based  on pagan fertility rites. The drenching custom  consisted of the boys dousing the girls with  buckets or bottles of water. In the switching  ceremony the boys switched the women with  pussy willow or leaved branches.  See also:   ash wednesday; bede the vener -  able, st.; boniface, st.  Ebba of Codingham, St.   (boar protection)  (ninth century)   In Christian legend, martyr,  abbess. Feast, 2 April. When the Danes invad -  ed her land, Ebba, fearful that all of her nuns  would be raped, cut off her nose and upper  lip to make herself unattractive. Her nuns fol -  lowed her example and also cut off their noses  and disfigured themselves. When the Danes  arrived and saw the noseless nuns, their anger  flared, and they set the convent on fire, burn -  ing the nuns inside.  Ebisu   In Japanese Shinto-Buddhist mythol -  ogy, god of daily food who was born deformed,  having no legs and also being deaf. He is the god  of honest dealing and is portrayed with a beard,  wearing a two-pointed hat, laughing, and hold -  ing a fishing pole and a   tai,   a sea bream. He is the  patron of tradesmen and fishermen. Sometimes  he is called Hiruko. He is one of the Shichi  Fukujin, the seven gods of good luck or fortune.  See also:   shichi fukujin  Echidna   (she-viper)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, half-woman, half-serpent monster, child  of   Chrysaor   and   Callirrhoë,   the   daughter  of Oceanus (or Phorcys and Ceto). Echidna  was the mother, by the monster Typhon, of  Orthus, Geryon’s hound, Cerberus, the Hydra,  and the Chimaera. By Orthus she was the  mother of the Sphinx and the Nemean Lion.  According to Herodotus’s   Histories   (book 3)  the hero Heracles had three children by her,  Agathyrsus,   Gelonus,   and   Scytha.   Echidna  appears   in   Hesiod’s   Theogony   (295   ff.)   and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 9).  See   also:   callirrhoë;   geryon;   hydra;  oceanus; ovid; typhon  Echo   (ring, resound)   In Greek mythology,  a nymph of Mount Helicon; daughter of Gaea.  33    Ebba of Codingham, St.  Ebisu

=== 페이지 356 ===
Echo was deprived of speech by the ever-jeal -  ous Hera because she was a confidant of Zeus’s  many   love   affairs.   She   wasted   away   when  Narcissus, whom she loved, did not return her  love. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 3) tells the  tale. Juliet in Shakespeare’s   Romeo and Juliet  (2.2) says:  Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,  And make her airy tongue more hoarse  than mine,  With repetition of my Romeo’s name.  (2.2.163–5)  English poets who have used or referred to  the tale of Echo are Chaucer, Spenser, Mar -  lowe, Milton, Shelley, and Keats.  See also:   chaucer; echo; gaea; hera; nar -  cissus; nymphs; ovid; zeus  Edith of Wilton, St.   (prosperous war)   In  Christian legend, daughter of King Edgar of  England. Feast, 16 September.  Edith’s mother was a beautiful nun, Wilfrida,  who was taken by the king to be his mistress.  As soon as she could, Wilfrida escaped and  returned to her nunnery, but she bore a child,  Edith. The girl stayed with her mother in the  convent but spent most of her time dressing up  in costly array. St. Ethelwold, who often visited  the convent, rebuked the girl for her dress.  She replied, “Pride may exist under the garb of  wretchedness and a mind may be pure under  these rich garments as under tattered ones.”  Edmund,   St.   (prosperity,   guardian)   (841–  870)   King and martyr, invoked against plague.  Feast, 20 November. When the Danes invaded  East Anglia in 870, they slew King Edward,  who had been crowned king of the East Angles  in 855. The king was shot with arrows and then  beheaded. According to legend, when his fol -  lowers sought his body, they found a huge gray  wolf reverently watching over it. They bore it  away, the wolf quietly following, and interred  the saint in a town now known as Bury St.  Edmund’s. In Christian art St. Edmund is por -  trayed with an arrow in his hand. Sometimes a  gray wolf crouches at his feet.  Edyrn   In Arthurian legend, son of Nudd,  who ousted Yniol from his earldom and tried  to win Enid, the earl’s daughter. He was over -  thrown by Geraint and sent to the court of  King Arthur, where he became a gentle person.  He appears in Tennyson’s narrative “Marriage  of Geraint,” one of the   Idylls of the King,   and in  Geraint   in Lady Charlotte Guest’s translation of  the Welsh collection of tales   The Mabinogion.  See also:   arthur;   mabinogion, the  Efé   In African mythology (Pygmy), the first  man who God created. After God created Efé,  he wanted him to return to heaven so that he  could hunt for Him. Efé served God well in  heaven, but in time he wanted to return to  earth. All of the Pygmies came out to greet him  on his return, but because he had been away  so long, no one was able to recognize him, not  even his brother. When asked if God was still  alive in the sky, Efé said that he was, and as  presents he gave the people three spears he had  used for hunting in heaven.  See also:   abuk and garang  Egeria   (of   the   black   poplar)   In   Roman  mythology, protector of unborn babies; wife of  Numa Pompilius, second king of Rome. She  melted into tears when Numa died and was  transformed into a fountain by the goddess  Diana. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 15) tells  her tale.  See also:   ovid  Egil   In Germanic mythology, peasant whom  the god Thor visited several times. Thor would  often leave his goats and chariot for the night.  Once he saw that Egil’s family had no food and  told them to kill the goats but to make sure  they put the bones back into the skin when  they had finished. The evil god Loki, however,  convinced Egil’s son Thialfi to break one of  the bones and eat its marrow. When Thor  returned, he brought the goats back to life, but  Egil   33 

=== 페이지 357 ===
one of them was missing a leg. To appease the  god, Egil gave Thialfi and his sister Roskova  as gifts to the god. Egil is also the name of a  hero who, along with his two brothers Slagfin  and Volund, married three Valkyries by steal -  ing their swans after bathing. After nine years  of   marriage,   however,   the   women   returned  to their swan shapes. The myth is told in the  Poetic Edda   in the   Song of Volund.  See also:   loki;   poetic edda ; thor; valkyries  Ehecatl   In Aztec mythology, wind god, a  manifestation of the god Quetzalcoatl. One day  Ehecatl realized that besides the fruits of the  earth man also needed sexual love. He there -  fore went in search of a maiden, Mayahuel,  who was in the underworld under the guard -  ianship of Tzitzimitl. The maiden agreed to  go with Ehecatl to the upper world, the earth,  and there they had sexual intercourse. As the  two touched the ground, a beautiful tree with  two great branches shot up. One branch was  known as “precious willow” and belonged to  Ehecatl, the other was covered with flowers and  belonged to Mayahuel. The sound of the wind  in the trees was feared by the ancient Mexicans,  who offered sacrifices to Ehecatl, going so far  in some cases as to “bleed” the genital organ  “by passing cords as long as fifteen to twenty  yards through it,” according to Fray Diego  Durán in his   Book of the Gods and Rites.  See also:   mayauel; quetzalcoatl  Eikthyrnir   (oak-encircler)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy, the hart or stag that eats from the branches  of the cosmic or world tree, Yggdrasill. The  Prose Edda   states that “whilst he is feeding so  many drops fall from his antlers down into  Hvergelmir that they furnish sufficient water  for the rivers that issuing thence flow through  the celestial bodies.”  See also:   prose edda ; yggdrasil  Einherjar   In Germanic mythology, the war -  riors chosen by Odin. They reside at Valhalla  and   await   the   last   great   battle,   Ragnarok.  In the   Prose Edda   (c. 1220   c.e. ) by Snorri  Sturluson, these warriors are described as “all  those men who have fallen in battle since the  beginning of the world.” It also says that they  will be sent out against the forces of chaos  during the last battle. One assumption is that  the myth is based on an Odin cult, which  included young warrior men who feasted end -  lessly with Odin.  See   also:   odin;   prose edda ; ragnarok;  valhalla  Eirene   (peace)   In   Greek   mythology,   god -  dess of peace and wealth, daughter of Zeus and  Themis; called Pax by the Romans. In Greek art  she was portrayed as a young woman with the  infant Plutus, god of wealth, in her arms. Other  attributes are the cornucopia, the olive branch,  Hermes’ staff, and ears of corn on her head.  See also:   hermes; pax; themis; zeus  Eka Abassi   In African mythology (Ibibios of  southern Nigeria), wife of Obumo, the thunder  god; in some accounts she is said also to be the  mother of Obumo. She is believed to be the  mother of God and is regarded as the divine  creatress. She is also believed to have conceived  Obumo, her first-born, without the aid of a  husband.  See also:   obumo; virgin mary  Ek   Balam   (Equebalam)   (black jaguar?)   In  the   mythology   of   the   ancient   Indians   of  Yucatán, a god who may have been worshipped  as a jaguar.  Ek Chauah   (Ekahau)   In Mayan mythology,  a god of war, of cacao, and of traveling mer -  chants; he is portrayed with a lance in one hand  or in combat with another war god. In his role  as god of traveling merchants, Ek Chauah is  portrayed with a bundle of merchandise on his  back. Paul Schellhas, when classifying the gods  in some Mayan codices, gave Ek Chauah the  letter   M,   and Ek Chauah is sometimes referred  to as God M.  340   Ehecatl

=== 페이지 358 ===
Ekkekko   (Ekeko,   Ekako,   Eq’eq’o)   In   the  mythology of the Peruvian highland Indians,  domestic god of good luck. Ekkekko is por -  trayed as a small figure with a pot belly; he is  covered with toy household utensils. To this  day   alacitas   (fairs) in Bolivia sell objects in  miniature in his honor. Thus, a woman will  buy a miniature house in the hope that she will  obtain a husband and a house of her own.  El   In Near Eastern mythology, basic Semitic  word   for   a   god,   often   used   to   designate   a  supernatural power. Among the Canaanites and  Phoenicians, El was the king of the gods, “cre -  ator of creation,” the all-wise judge of human -  kind. In the Old Testament El and Elohim are  often used to designate a god or the Hebrew  god.   Among   the   most   frequent   titles   found  in the Old Testament are the following: El  Shadday (God, the one of mountains), translated  as God Almighty in the King James Version; El  Elyon (Exalted One, Most High); Melchizedek  (Gen. 14:18), a priest of the “most high God”;  El Olam (God of Eternity), originally a title  of a Canaanite god worshipped at Beer-sheba  and later applied to the Hebrew god, Yahweh,  translated as “the Lord, the everlasting God”  in the King James Version; El-Bethel (God of  Bethel), the god who revealed himself to Jacob  (Gen. 35:7); El Berith (God of the Covenant),  appearing   in   Judges   (9:46);   El   Elohe-Israel  (God the God of Israel), the god to whom Jacob  (Gen. 33:19–20) built an altar in Shechem; and  Elchim (god or gods), often appearing in the  Old Testament. In Genesis, the King James  translators substitute God for Elohim.  See also:   melchizedek; yahweh  Elaine   (the bright one, the shining one)   In  Arthurian legend, the name of two women, both  of whom were in love with Lancelot. The first  Elaine was the daughter of King Pelles and the  mother of Galahad by Lancelot. When Lancelot  refused to marry her, Elaine used magic and  assumed the form of Queen Guinever, who was  loved by Lancelot. Through this deception, the  first Elaine became the mother of Galahad. The  second Elaine was known as the Lily of Astolat.  Lancelot did not return her love, and she died.  By her request her body was placed on a barge.  In her right hand was a lily and a letter avowing  her love for Lancelot. An old servant rowed the  barge until it reached the palace of King Arthur,  where the king asked that the letter be read  and then commanded the woman be buried as  a queen. She is the subject of Tennyson’s poem  “The Lady of Shalott.”  See   also:   arthur;   astolat;   galahad;  guinever; lancelot of the lake  El Dorado   (the gilded man)   In Central and  South American legends, a fantastic city and its  king. The earliest form of the legend tells of a  priest-king who once a year covered his body  with oil and gold dust and bathed in a river,  offering the gold to the river spirits. When the  Spaniards came to the New World, the Indians  told them of the city where the king lived (it  El Dorado   34   Elaine   (Aubrey Beardsley)

=== 페이지 359 ===
was called Omagua, Manoa, Paytiti, or Enim).  They usually located it far from their own cit -  ies, in the hope that the Spanish greed for gold  would encourage the conquistadores to move  on. The legend was probably based on a reli -  gious rite performed on Lake Guatavita.  In 1530 a German knight, Ambros von Alfin -  ger, went in search of El Dorado, chaining his  native carriers to one another and cutting off the  heads of any who died, to avoid having to break  the chains. This sadist was eventually killed by  an arrow shot into his neck. Others who sought  the city were Diego de Ordaz (1531), Philip von  Hutten (1540–1541), and Sir Walter Raleigh  (1595). One of the most interesting was a group  under the leadership of Don Pedro de Ursza that  set out from Peru in 1559. Though Don Pedro  was a gentleman, his men were a band of cut -  throats. By the end of the journey most of them  had been killed by the others. Another seeker,  Lope de Aguirre, proclaimed himself prince and  king of Tierre Firme; he was murdered by one of  his men. His name continues in Venezuelan folk -  lore, in which the phosphorescence of a swamp is  called   fuego de Aguirre   (Aguirre’s fire).  The term   El Dorado   has come to be a meta -  phor for any place that offers unrealistic hope  of quick riches. Voltaire, in his satirical book  Candide,   had the hero discover the country of El  Dorado. Candide is told by a 172-year-old man  that El Dorado was the ancient country of the  Incas, “who left it very indiscreetly, in order to  conquer one part of the world; instead of doing  which, they themselves were all destroyed by the  Spaniards.” He tells Candide that “the Spaniards  have some confused idea of this country and have  called it El Dorado.” Candide and his associate  Cacambo are entertained in the kingdom, given  gold (which is of no value to the inhabitants), and  then placed on a specially constructed machine  that carries them out of the country. Edgar Allan  Poe’s poem   Eldorado   also invokes the legend.  See also:   guatavita lake  Electra   (amber)   In Greek mythology, daugh -  ter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra; sister of  Orestes, Iphigenia, and Chrysothemis. Electra  convinced her brother Orestes to murder their  mother,   Clytemnestra,   and   Aegisthus,   their  mother’s lover, in retaliation for the murder  of their father, Agamemnon. In later life she  married Pylades and was mother of Medon and  Strophius. Electra is also known as Laodice.  Electra appears in Sophocles’   Electra,   Euripides’  play   Electra,   Richard   Strauss’s   one-act   opera  Electra   (1909),   Giraudoux’s   Electre   (1939),  Eugene   O’Neill’s   Mourning   Becomes   Electra  (1931), which later was filmed, and Cacoyannis’s  film   Electra.   The term   Electra complex   is some -  times used to describe the pathological rela -  tionship of a woman with men, based on her  unresolved conflicts with her father.  See also:   agamemnon; iphigenia; laodice;  orestes  Electra mourning for Orestes  342   Electra

=== 페이지 360 ===
El   El   In   the   mythology   of   the   Puelcho  Indians of the Patagonian pampas in South  America,   El   El   is   the   leader   of   a   host   of  demons,   called   Quezubu,   who   are   bent   on  destroying mankind.  elephant   A large mammal with large floppy  ears, ivory tusks, and flexible trunk found in  India   and   Africa.   In   Hindu   mythology   the  elephant is a manifestation of Ganesha, the  friendly god who brings good luck to his wor -  shippers. No venture or undertaking is begun  without prayers being offered to the elephant  deity. In Hindu folklore it is also believed that  white elephants attract white clouds and thus  cause rain. If a ruler did away with a white  elephant, his people would feel betrayed. In  Buddhist folklore one tale in the   Jataka,   a col -  lection of tales on the previous births or lives  of the Buddha, tells how the future Buddha  gave away his father’s white elephant to bring  rainfall to a nearby country suffering from  drought and famine. The king’s subjects felt  betrayed and forced the future Buddha into  exile. Buddha’s birth is connected with a white  elephant. Buddha’s mother, Queen Maya, had  a dream of a white elephant who entered her  body. When she told her dream to the sooth -  sayers, they said she would bear a son who  would either rule the world or save it. She bore  the latter, the Buddha.  In Chinese folklore the elephant is a symbol  of sagacity and prudence, as well as strength.  In Roman belief the elephant was said to be a  religious animal, one who worshipped the sun  and stars. In medieval Christian folklore it was  believed the elephant could not bend its knees  and had to lean against a tree to sleep. If the  tree broke, the elephant would fall and could  never get up. In modern folklore Dumbo and  Babar, both children’s book characters, portray  the elephant as a sweet, lovable animal.  See also:   buddha, the; ganesha;   jataka  Eleusinian Mysteries   In ancient Greece,  sacred rites initiated by Eumolpus and Celeus in  honor of the goddess Demeter and her daugh -  ter Persephone; held at Eleusis, a city 14 miles  west of Athens, near the Isthmus of Corinth.  Celebrated in February and September, the  rites consisted of purifications, fasts, and dra -  mas, but the exact particulars of each are not  known. Their purpose was to ensure rebirth  and immortality. Because such rites conflict -  ed with Christianity, they were abolished by  Emperor Theodosius at the end of the fourth  century.   Swinburne’s   “At   Eleusis,”   Shelley’s  “Song of Proserpine, While Gathering Flowers  on the Plain of Enna,” Tennyson’s “Demeter  and   Persephone,”   and   George   Meredith’s  “The Appeasement of Demeter” all deal with  Demeter and Persephone.  See also:   demeter; persephone  Elfthryth   In   medieval   British   legend,   a  queen noted for her beauty. King Edgar sent  Aethelwald, his friend, to ascertain if Elfthryth  was really as beautiful as she was reported to  be. When Aethelwald saw Elfthryth, he fell in  love with her. Reporting to the king, he said she  was not beautiful enough for the king but was  rich enough to make an eligible wife for him -  self. The king agreed to the match and became  godfather to the first child, Edgar. One day the  king told his friend he intended to pay him a  visit to see his wife for the first time. Aethelwald  then told his wife the truth and begged her to  make herself as ugly as possible. Indignant,  she appeared in all her beauty. When the king  saw her, he fell in love with her, slew his friend  Aethelwald, and married Elfthryth. A similar  tale is told in the   Histories   of the Greek writer  Herodotus, with Prexaspes as the name of the  woman and Kambyses that of the king.  Elgin   Marbles   Popular   name   given   to  Greek sculptures from the Parthenon at Athens  portraying Theseus, Lapiths, Centaurs, three  Fates, Iris, and others. They were removed  from the ruins by the seventh earl of Elgin in  1801–1803. The sculptures, displayed in the  British Museum as the “Parthenon Sculptures,”  Elgin Marbles   343

=== 페이지 361 ===
are the work of Phidias (c. 490–415   b.c.e. ) or  his studio and pupils.  See also:   centaur; lapiths; iris; theseus  Elidure   In British mythology, a king who  was   placed   on   the   throne   three   times.   He  first came to the throne when he believed his  brother Artegal (Arthgallo) was dead. At the  return of Artegal he stepped down. Ten years  later Artegal died, and Elidure again was made  king. Shortly afterward he was deposed by two  younger brothers. Finally, they both died, and  he was made king for the third time. He appears  in Geoffrey of Monmouth’s   History of the Kings  of Britain,   in the poet Milton’s   History of Britain,  and in William Wordsworth’s poem   Artegal  and Elidure,   which was inspired by Milton’s and  Monmouth’s accounts of the king.  Elijah   (my   god   is   Yahweh)   (ninth   century  b.c.e. )   In the Bible, O.T., prophet taken up  to heaven in a chariot of fire. Elijah proph -  esied during the reigns of Ahab and Jezebel.  One   of   his   major   battles   was   against   the  worship of Baal as instituted by Jezebel. In a  competition on Mount Carmel, Elijah called  on Yahweh, the Hebrew god, to set fire to  the altar sacrifice, winning the contest when  Baal’s priests could not muster their god to  do the same. Though he won, Elijah had to  flee from Jezebel. He went to Mount Horab  (Mount Carmel), where he was fed by an  angel, as earlier at Cherith he had been fed  by ravens. While on the mountain he heard  or felt the presence of Yahweh in “a still small  voice” (1 Kings 2:11). As he was being taken  to heaven, his mantle fell on his successor,  Elisha (2 Kings 2:13). In the New Testament,  Elijah appears at   Elijah   the Transfiguration  of Jesus, along with Moses. A place for the  prophet is set aside at every Passover meal.  The Carmelite religious order claims Elijah  as its founder because he lived a solitary life  in a cave on Mount Carmel. Dieric Bouts  (c. 1415–1475) painted an   Elijah Comforted  by an Angel,   and Giovanni Battista Piazzetta  (1682–1754) painted   Elijah Taken Up to Heaven  in a Chariot of Fire.   Mendelssohn’s oratorio  Elijah   also deals with the prophet. Elias is the  Greek form of his name.  See also:   elisha; jezebel; yahweh  Elisha   (God is salvation)   (ninth century   b.c.e. )  In the Bible, O.T., attendant and disciple of the  prophet Elijah. Among his miracles, the influ -  ence of which can be seen in New Testament  writings, are the purification of Jericho springs  (2 Kings 2:19–22), the multiplication of the  widow’s oil (2 Kings 4:1–7), returning a wom -  an’s son to life (2 Kings 4:8–37), increasing  loaves (2 Kings 4:42–44), and the cleansing  of Naaman, army chief of the king of Syria (2  Kings 5:1–14).  See also:   elijah  Elivagar   (rivers   whipped   by   passing  showers)   In Norse mythology, a river located  at the outer reaches of the mythological world,  filled with venom that froze over the icy banks  of Ginnungagap, the abyss from which the  primeval giant Ymir was born. Elivagar is men -  tioned in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   ginnungagap;   prose edda ; ymir  344   Elidure  Elijah

=== 페이지 362 ===
Elizabeth, St.   (God swearer)   In the New  Testament, mother of John the Baptist, wife of  Zacharias, and cousin of the Virgin Mary (Luke  1:11–13). Feast, 5 November. Although an old  woman, she bore John the Baptist. When Mary  knew she was pregnant by the Holy Spirit,  she went to visit Elizabeth, who greeted her  with “Whence is this to me, that the mother  of my Lord should come to me?” (Luke 1:43).  This scene, called the Visitation, is frequently  painted in Christian art.  See also:   john the baptist, st.; virgin mary  Elizabeth of Portugal, St.   (God has sworn)  (1271–1336)   In Christian legend, patron saint  of peacemakers. Feast, 8 July.  Unhappily married to King Denis of Portu -  gal, Elizabeth devoted her time to negotiating  peace between rival elements in her society,  such as Ferdinand IV of Castile and his cousin  and Ferdinand and James II of Aragon. After  the death of her husband she retired to a con -  vent and became a Poor Clare. Schiller’s poem  Fridolin   recounts a legend in which St. Eliza -  beth saved her servant from being murdered by  her husband. In the poem, however, the setting  is Germany, and the saint is called   Die Gräfin  von Savern   (The Countess of Savern). In Span -  ish her name is Santa Isabel de Paz.  See also:   clare, st.  El-lal   In the mythology of the Tehuelche  Indians of the Patagonian pampas in South  America, a creator-hero god.  El-lal’s father, Nosjthe, wanted to eat his  son and snatched him from his mother’s womb.  A rodent saved the child and carried him to  a cave that Nosjthe was unable to enter. The  rodent taught El-lal the secrets of plants and  the different paths in the mountains. El-lal then  invented the bow and arrow, and with these he  learned how to hunt wild animals. El-lal did not  hold a grudge against his father but taught him  all he knew, and Nosjthe acted “as master of it”  even while still plotting to kill his son. He fol -  lowed El-lal across the Andes, but when he was  about to kill him a dense forest arose between  the two, saving El-lal. The hero descended to  the plain, which in the meantime had become  populated with men and women. Among the  group was also a giant, Goshy-e, who liked to  eat children. El-lal fought against the giant, but  his arrows were useless. He then transformed  himself into a gadfly and, entering the stomach  of the giant, wounded Goshy-e fatally with his  sting. After numerous other heroic feats El-lal  wanted to marry the daughter of the sun, but  she refused. El-lal left the earth, borne on the  wings of a swan, and found eternal rest “in the  verdant island that rose among the waves at the  place where arrows shot by him had fallen on  the surface of the water,” according to Ramón  Lista in   Los Indios Tehuelches.  Ellora   Site   in   Maharashtra,   India,   associ -  ated with the deeds of many gods and heroes,  as well as with ancient blood sacrifices. There  are numerous Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist cave  temples in the area.  Eloy of Noyon, St.   (588–659)   In Christian  legend, patron saint of metalworkers, goldsmiths,  farriers, and horses. Feast, 1 December.  Eloy was a goldsmith of Limoges who went  into the service of King Clotaire II in Paris.  The king asked him to make a throne for him,  and Eloy was supplied with gold and jewels for  the work. After making the throne, there was  so much precious metal and so many stones  left over that Eloy made a second throne for  the king rather than pocket the leftover materi -  als. The king was so pleased with the work and  with Eloy’s honesty that he took him into his  confidence. Clotaire’s successor, King Dagob -  ert, made Eloy the master of the mint. He cast  the dies for the coinage of the realm (13 are  known to bear his name). When King Dagob -  ert died, Eloy was made bishop of Noyon.  He was sent to preach in Belgium and,  legend says, he went as far as Sweden and  Denmark. Before his consecration as bishop,  he was tempted by the devil. One day a horse  was brought to him to be shod. The animal  was possessed by a devil. Eloy cut off the leg of  Eloy of Noyon, St.   345

=== 페이지 363 ===
the horse and quietly put on the shoe. When  he was done he made the sign of the cross over  the leg, and it attached itself to the horse. The  greatest oath of Chaucer’s prioress in   The Can -  terbury Tales   is “By Seint Eloy.”  In Christian art St. Eloy of Noyon is por -  trayed either as a bishop or a smith. In either  case he holds his smith’s tools, tongs, hammer,  or bellows. The miracle of the horse is por -  trayed on the exterior of Or-San-Michele at  Florence by Nanni di Banco.  elves   In Norse mythology the elves are often  associated with the Aesir. The English transla -  tion of   Alfar   is elves. It also can be translated  as “dwarfs.”  See also:   aesir; alf; alfar; alfheim; nibe -  lungs; nine worlds  Elysium   In Greek and Roman mythology, the  home of blessed dead. In early Greek mythology  it was said to be situated in the Islands of the  Blessed in some remote part of the earth. In later  Greek and Roman mythology the location of the  Elysian Fields (another name) was in the under -  world. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6) tells how the hero  Aeneas meets his dead father, Anchises, in the  Elysian fields. Elysium is used in Shakespeare’s  Two Gentlemen of Verona   (2.7.37),   Henry VI, Part  III   (1.2.30), and   Twelfth Night   (1.2.3); Milton’s  Comus   (257); Cowper’s   Progress of Error ; Andrew  Lang’s   The Fortunate Islands ; Schiller’s   Elysium ;  Shelley’s “Ode to Naples” (30); and Swinburne’s  “Garden of Proserpine.” The Champs Elysées  in Paris is named after the Greek myth.  See also:   aeneid, the  Emma Ten   In Japanese Buddhist mythol -  ogy, a god based on the Hindu god of death,  Yama, portrayed sometimes as a youth with  three eyes, carrying in his right hand a scep -  ter terminating in a small Bodhisattva head.  He   is   one   of   the   Jiu   No   O,   12   Japanese  Buddhist gods and goddesses adopted from  Hindu mythology.  See also:   bodhisattva; jiu no o; yama  Enceladus   (clear-voiced)   In   Greek   and  Roman mythology, a giant, son of Titan and  Gaea. Enceladus fled from Phlegra to Sicily  pursued by Zeus, who hurled a thunderbolt  to destroy him. Mount Aetna was then placed  above his body. When Enceladus turns over, an  earthquake results. When the giant hisses and  thrusts out his fiery tongue, Mount Etna erupts.  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 3) cites the myth. In variant  myths he was killed by Heracles or by Athena,  who placed Mount Aetna over his body.  See also:   aeneid, the;   athena; gaea; hera -  cles; titans; zeus  Enchanted   Horse,   The   Tale   in   The  Thousand   and   One   Nights   (nights   357–371).  A Persian inventor constructed a mechanical  horse for Sabour, king of the Persians, and as a  reward the king offered the old man his daugh -  ter. However, the girl did not want to marry the  old man and asked her brother to help her. The  young prince went to the old man and asked  him about the mechanical horse, which could  soar into the sky. The inventor, aware of the  prince’s hatred for him, taught the prince how  to mount the horse, and how to let it fly—but  he didn’t tell him how to get the horse down  again.  The young man ascended to the heavens  and then realized that he did not know how  to get down. After thinking about it for some  time and calling upon Allah, he discovered the  peg to let the horse down. The prince came  to a city where he found a beautiful princess.  After many adventures he finally married her  and returned home. His father, the king, then  destroyed the magic horse.  See also:   allah;   thousand and one nights,  the  Endicott,   John   (1588–1666)   In   American  history and folklore, colonial administrator, and  acting   governor   of   Massachusetts   Bay   Colony   until  1630. An intolerant Puritan, Endicott persecuted  the Quakers and high-church Anglicans who  did not follow his narrow views of Christianity.  346   elves

=== 페이지 364 ===
Hawthorne’s short story “Endicott and the Red  Cross,” included in   Twice Told Tales,   tells the leg -  end of Endicott’s cutting the red cross, symbol  of St. George, patron saint of England, from  the English flag. Hawthorne has Endicott say:  “Before God and man, I will avouch the deed.   .   .   .  Beat the flourish, drummers!—shout, soldiers  and people!—in honor of the ensign of New  England. Neither Pope nor Tyrant hath part in  it now.” Longfellow’s play   John Endicott,   part of  his   New England Tragedies,   deals with Endicott’s  persecution of Quakers in Boston.  Endo Morito   (Mongaku Shonin, Endo Musha  Morito)   (12th century   c.e. )   In Japanese leg -  end, a hero, a warrior who killed the woman he  loved, and later a monk.  Endo Morito was a captain living in Kyoto  who fell in love with Kesa, the wife of a samu -  rai, Watanabe Wataru. When Kesa resisted his  advances, Endo Morito vowed to kill her family  unless she allowed him to murder her husband  and agreed to become his wife. She made an  appointment to receive him in her house at  night, when he would find her husband asleep  alone in a room and could kill him. Endo came  and cut off the head of the person he found  sleeping in the appointed room, only to dis -  cover that it was Kesa herself. Her husband  being on a journey, she had dressed herself in  some of his clothes and sacrificed herself to  save her honor. Endo was overcome with grief,  shaved his head, and became a monk, calling  himself Mongaku. He retired to the district  of Oki and for 21 days remained naked, hold -  ing in his teeth the   vajra-   shaped handle of his  bell, counting his beads, and praying under a  waterfall. In Japanese art Endo Morito is often  portrayed doing his penance.  Endymion   (weighing   on   the   mind)   In  Greek   mythology,   handsome   youth,   son   of  Acthlius or of Zeus and Calyce. Endymion was  the king of Elis. In some accounts Zeus gave  him the choice of death or immortal sleep. The  king chose sleep. Endymion was loved by the  moon goddess Selene (or Artemis), who saw  him naked. Artemis (or Selene) made love to  Endymion while he was asleep and bore him  50 daughters. To preserve his beauty Artemis  Endymion   34   Endymion   (H. O. Walker)

=== 페이지 365 ===
made   him   sleep   everlastingly.   Shakespeare’s  The Merchant of Venice   (5.1) has Portia explain  a moonless night by saying, “the moon sleeps  with Endymion, / And would not be awak’d.”  Endymion appears in Spenser’s   Epithalamium  (372 ff.), John Lyly’s play   Endymion, the Man in  the Moon   (1606), Michael Drayton’s   Endymion  and Phoebe   (1595), and Keats’s narrative poem  Endymion.   Endymion was painted by Tintoretto,  Van Dyke, and Rubens.  See also:   artemis; selene; zeus  Enkidu   (Eabani,   Endimdu,   Engidu,   Enkita)  (land of the good place)   In the Babylonian  epic poem   Gilgamesh,   rival and companion to  Gilgamesh. He was molded of clay by Aruru,  goddess of creation, in the image of “the essence  of Anu,” the sky god, and of Ninurta, the war  god. Enkidu is the archetypal wild or “natural”  man in contrast to the sophisticated Gilgamesh.  In Babylonian religion he became the patron  god of animals because in the poem he is cred -  ited with many animal-like qualities until he  tastes sex with a harlot. He then becomes a man,  an enemy in the eyes of the animals.  See also:   anu; aruru; gilgamesh; ninurta  Enlil   (Bel Enlil, Eilil, Illillos)   (storm god)   In  Near Eastern mythology (Sumero-Akkadian),  creator god, storm god, god of earth and air;  he was also called father of the gods and king  of heaven and earth, as well as the king of all  lands, patron god of the city of Nippur, and  lord of the underworld. Often Enlil was called  Bel (lord) in other Near Eastern mythologies.  In one myth, titled   Enlil and the Creation  of the Pickax,   Enlil separates Ansar (the upper  heavens) and Kisar (the earth), taking earth as  his portion. He then brings up “the seed of the  land” from the earth and discovers the pickax,  which he teaches man to use. In a variant myth  Enlil is responsible for the creation of trees and  grains, as well as for appointing the seasons.  Another myth tells how Enlil was banished  to the underworld for rape. Before man was  created, Enlil lived in the city of Nippur with  the goddess Ninlil and her mother, Nunbarshe -  gunu. One day the mother told her daughter to  bathe in the river so “the bright-eyed Enlil”  would see her and then marry her. Enlil saw  Ninlil and wanted to have sexual intercourse  with her, but the girl said:  “My vagina is too small, it does not know  how to copulate.  My lips are too small, they do not know  how to kiss.   .   .   .”  Enlil paid no attention and raped Ninlil.  The gods in anger banished him to the under -  world. Ninlil became pregnant and followed  Enlil to the underworld, giving birth to the  moon god Sin.  See also:   bel; sin  Ennead   (nine)   In Egyptian mythology, nine  deities   whose   characteristics   symbolize   the  elemental-primal forces in the universe. The  Great Ennead revolved around the mythology  of Heliopolis, a suburb of modern Cairo, and  consisted of Atum the sole creator, his offspring  Shu (air) and Tefnut (water), and their children  Geb (earth), Nut (sky), Isis, Osiris, Seth, and  Nephthys. As time passed, other cult centers  developed their own enneads, and therefore the  numbers varied. The ennead at Thebes consisted  of 15 deities, and that of Hermopolis consisted of  8. The latter became so famous that it is called  the Ogdoad of Hermopolis (the eight deities of  that site). They were Nun and Naunet, Huh and  Hauhet, Kuk and Kauket, Amen and Amunet.  The four male gods were portrayed as froghead -  ed; the females were shown as snakeheaded.  See   also:   amun; aten; geb; isis; osiris;  nephthys; nut; set; shu; tefnut  Enoch   (dedicated)   In the Bible, O.T., father  of Methuselah; he “walked with God: and he  was not; for God took him” (Gen. 5:24). This  is generally understood to mean he did not  die but was taken to heaven like the prophet  Elijah. In the New Testament the Epistle of  34    Enkidu

=== 페이지 366 ===
Jude (chap. 14) describes Enoch as “the sev -  enth from Adam.” In medieval Jewish folklore  Aupiel, the tallest angel, is credited with taking  Enoch to heaven.  See also:   elijah; methuselah  Ephialtes   (he who leaps upon)   In Greek  mythology, a giant, son of Poseidon (or Aloeus  and Iphimedeia or Uranus and Gaea), twin  brother   of   Otus.   When   the   war   between  the Titans (giants) and the gods took place,  Ephialtes was nine years old and had grown  nine inches every month. Ephialtes was killed  by Apollo, according to some accounts, or by  Apollo and Heracles, each of whom shot an  arrow into each eye of the giant.  See also:   apollo; gaea; heracles; posei -  don; titans; uranus  Ephraim ben Sancho and the Parable of  the Two Gems   Jewish folktale from   Liber  Shebet Yehuda   (The Book of the Rod of Judah)  by Solomon ibn Verga, written in the 16th  century.  Often Christian kings would invite Jews  to debate with Christians the various merits  of their faiths. One day Nicholas of Valencia,  who hated the Jews, asked Don Pedro, king of  Aragon, to bring Ephraim ben Sancho to court  to ask him which faith was superior, Judaism or  Christianity.  When Ephraim was brought to court he  asked the king for three days to come back  with an answer. When he returned he had a  sad look.  “What is wrong?” asked the king.  “A month ago,” replied Ephraim, “a neigh -  bor who is a jeweler went on a journey. Before  he left he gave me instructions to keep the  peace between his two sons, both of whom he  had given precious gems. They came to me  asking which gem was the superior of the two.  I told them their father was the only man who  could answer that and they beat me.”  “They   have   mistreated   you,”   the   king  replied, “and should be punished.”  “O king,” replied Ephraim, “may your ears  hear what your mouth has said. The two broth -  ers were Esau and Jacob [the twin sons of Isaac  in the Old Testament]. Each received from  God a priceless gem. You have asked me which  religion is superior. How can I answer; only our  Father in heaven can tell us.”  When the king heard the wise reply, he  rebuked his counselor, Nicholas of Valencia,  and praised Ephraim for his wisdom.  See also:   esau; isaac; jacob  epic laws   In 1908, the Danish folklorist  Axel Olrik presented his superorganic concep -  tion of culture in regard to folk narrative. In  a lecture published one year later, he outlined  a total of thirteen “laws” which he thought  controlled individual narrators. The laws con -  cerned opening and closing formulas, repeti -  tion (particularly threefold), and contrasts such  as twins. They emphasized that narratives are  single-stranded,   patterned,   peak   in   one   or  more major scenes, have an internal logic and  an ideal epic unity, and always concentrate on a  leading character. Olrik’s work tended to treat  narratives much like a natural science, and sug -  gested that the structure and content of narra -  tives are beyond an individual’s control.  See also:   three-fold repetition  Epimenides   In   Greek   mythology,   a   cul -  ture hero and a shepherd of Crete. He wrote  poetry, taught the worship of the gods, and  built the first temples. One day he fell asleep  while searching for lost sheep and slept for 57  years.  Epona   (the great mare)   In Roman mythol -  ogy, a Celtic goddess, daughter of a man and  a mare; she protected cattle, oxen, and hors -  es. Epona was worshipped in Roman Gaul,  from Spain to the Balkans and from northern  Britain to Italy. In art she was portrayed rid -  ing on a horse or seated and surrounded by  mares. Juvenal’s   Eighth Satire   (157) mentions  the goddess.  Epona   34 

=== 페이지 367 ===
Erato   (sexual passion)   In Greek mythology,  one of the nine Muses; Muse of love or erotic  poetry, lyrics, and marriage songs; daughter  of   Zeus   and   Mnemosyne.   Her   symbol   was  a lyre. The Muses are invoked at the begin -  ning of Homer’s   Iliad   and   Odyssey,   Spenser’s  Teares   of   the   Muses   and   The   Fairie   Queene  (Prologue, 2), Shakespeare’s   Sonnet XXXVIII,  Gray’s   Progress of Poesy   (2.3), Milton’s   Paradise  Lost   (book 7.1), Byron’s   Childe Harold   (1.62),  Wordsworth’s   “Ode”   (1816),   and   Matthew  Arnold’s “Consolation” and   Empedocles on Etna.  See also:   iliad, the; odyssey, the;   zeus  Erda   (earth)   In Germanic mythology, earth  goddess, the protector of secret treasures, but  especially known as the giver of strength and  nourishment for plants, animals, and humans.  She is almost always viewed as a motherly god -  dess. She is known in Norse mythology as Jord.  She appears in Richard Wagner’s   Der Ring des  Nibelungen.   In his   Das Rhinegold   the goddess  warns Wotan (Odin) to give up the ring.  Yield it, Wotan! Yield it!  Flee the ring’s dread curse!  Awful  And utter disaster  It will doom thee to.  The god does not listen to Erda’s plea and  as a result eventually brings about the destruc -  tion of all of the gods and humankind. During  the Middle Ages plows were carried in Chris -  tian Shrovetide processions to bless the earth,  an indiction that the goddess may still have  been worshipped. Erda is portrayed by Arthur  Rackham in his illustrations for Wagner’s Ring  Cycle. Erda is also known as Hertha or Aertha.  See also:   nerthus; tuisto;   ring des nibe -  lungen, der  Eremon   (Herimon)   In   Celtic   mythology,  the first Milesian king of Ireland. Eremon was  said to be a contemporary of King David of  the Bible. He was the elder of two brothers,  but after the victory of the Milesians over the  Danaans, the original inhabitants of the land,  Eber, his brother, refused to obey Eremon. A  war ensued in which Eber was killed, but the  feud was continued by their descendants.  See also:   david, king  Ereshkigal   (queen of the great below)   In  Near   Eastern   mythology   (Babylonian-  Assyrian), goddess of the underworld, married  to the war god Nergal.  Once the gods made a feast and sent a mes -  sage to Ereshkigal saying that, though they  could go down to her realm of the dead, she  could not come up to their home, and there -  fore it would be best if she sent a messenger to  fetch the food set aside for her. Ereshkigal sent  a messenger. When he arrived, all of the gods  stood up to receive him, except for Nergal,  who did not show the proper respect. Erato  350   Erato

=== 페이지 368 ===
When the messenger returned to Ereshkigal,  he told her what had happened. The goddess  then asked that the delinquent be sent to her so  that she could kill him. The gods discussed the  matter and decided to send the culprit to the  vengeful goddess. When Nergal arrived in the  underworld, he grabbed Ereshkigal by her hair  and dragged her from her throne.  “Do not kill me, my brother,” cried the  goddess. “Let me speak with you. You shall  be my husband and I will be your wife. I will  make you to rule the whole earth. I will place  the Tablet of Wisdom in your hand. You shall  be Lord and I will be Lady.”  Nergal kissed the goddess, wiping away her  tears.  “Whatever you have asked me in the past  will now be yours,” Nergal replied. The two  were then married.  In many texts Ereshkigal is called Allatu.  See also:   nergal  Erh-shih-ssu   Hsiao   (24 examples of filial  piety)   In   Chinese   folklore,   24   individuals  who exemplify the important virtues. They are  1.   Emperor   Shun,   2317–2207   b.c.e.  Though mistreated by his father, Shun  maintained the proper respect for him.  Eventually Emperor Yao chose Shun  to succeed him, even passing over his  own son. In art Shun is often portrayed  plowing a field with the aid of an ele -  phant, which helped him do the work  given him by his evil father.  2.   Tseng Shen, 505–347   b.c.e.   A disciple  of Confucius. When he was gathering  fuel in the woods, his mother at home,  in her anxiety to see him, bit her finger.  At once he knew his mother wished to  see him because the sympathy between  the two was so strong.  3.   Emperor Wen, 179–156   b.c.e.   He stayed  with his mother for three years during  her illness, never leaving her room or  changing his clothes.  4.   Min Sun, sixth century   b.c.e.   A pupil of  Confucius. His father remarried, and  the stepmother disliked the boy. When  the father discovered this, he wished to  divorce his wife, but Min Sun pleaded  with his father, saying it would leave her  two sons without a mother.  5.   Chung Yu, 543–480   b.c.e.   A disciple of  Confucius. He carried rice bags on his  back to support his poor parents. He is  said to have been originally the son of the  thunder god. He is also called Tze Lu and  in Japanese legend is known as Chiuyu.  6.   T’ung Yung, second century   c.e.   He had  no money to bury his parents, so he sold  himself to raise the money. When he  returned home he met a young woman  who offered to marry him, releasing him  from his bondage. His owner demanded  300 pieces of silk, which the girl wove in  a month. She was Chih N’u’, the Weav -  ing Damsel, sent by heaven to reward  T’ung Yung for his devotion. In Japa -  nese legend he is called Tovei.  7.   Yen Tz’u (Chou dynasty?). His parents  wanted doe’s milk, which he procured by  dressing in deer skins and mingling with  the herd. In Japanese he is called Enshi.  8.   Chiang Ko (Kiang Keh), 500   c.e.   When  his mother was captured by robbers,  he asked the robber chief permission  to take her away. He then carried her a  long distance on his back.  9.   Lu Hsü (Lu Sü), first century   c.e.   He  was released from jail on account of his  devotion to his mother. When he was  six years old, he was invited to the house  of a rich neighbor, Yüan Chou, and was  given some oranges to eat. As he was  taking leave, his host saw two oranges fall  from his dress. Yüan Chou asked the boy  why he hadn’t eaten the oranges. Lu Hsü  replied that his mother was very fond of  oranges, and he had not eaten them so  he could give them to her. In Japanese  legend Lu Hsü is called Rikuzoku.  Erh-shih-ssu Hsiao   35 

=== 페이지 369 ===
10.   T’ang   Fu-jen   or   Ts’ui   Shih   (Ts’ui  She), the only woman on the list. She  gave milk from her own breasts to her  mother-in-law, who had lost her teeth.  11.   Wu Mêng, fifth century   c.e.   He allowed  himself to be bitten by mosquitoes, rather  than brush them off, for fear they might  annoy his parents, who were in the same  room sleeping. Sometimes Wu Mêng is  portrayed crossing a river on a feather  fan, which he waves over the boisterous  waters. Other times he is shown with  a fan in his hand, driving through the  heavens in a chariot drawn by two stags.  He is credited with slaying a giant snake.  In Japanese legend he is called Gomo.  12.   Wang Hsiang (Wang Siang), 185–269  c.e.   To satisfy his stepmother’s desire for  fish during winter, he lay down naked  on the ice pond until a hole melted, out  of which jumped two carp.  13.   Kuo Chu (Kwoh Ku), second century  c.e.   Not having enough food to feed his  mother, Kuo Chu proposed that he and  his wife kill their son so that there would  be enough food to go around, saying that  they could have another child but not  another mother. When they were about  to bury the child alive, they found a bar  of gold on which it was written that it was  a gift of the gods. Kuo Chu is often por -  trayed with his wife and son in a garden.  14.   Yang Hsiang (Yang Hiang), Han dynasty.  He jumped in front of a tiger to save his  father’s life, thus losing his own.  15.   Chu Shou-ch’ang (Cho Show-Chiang),  1031–1102   c.e.   He   searched   for   50  years to find out the identity of his true  mother. When he did, he served her the  rest of his life.  16.   Yu   Ch’ien-lou   (Yü   K’ien-low),   sixth  century   c.e. . He left his government  post after 10 days to take care of his sick  father.  17.   Ta’i Shun (Tseng Shên), first century  c.e.   He gave his mother ripe berries  while he ate only green ones.  18.   Lao Lai-tsu. At 70 years of age he still  dressed as a child to entertain his senile  parents. In Japanese legend he is called  Roraishi.  19.   Huang Hsiang (Huang Hiang). He lost  his mother when he was a child and  grieved   so   much   that   he   became   as  thin as a skeleton. He devoted the rest  of his life to his father, fanning him in  the summer and in winter lying in his  father’s bed to warm it.  20.   Chiang Shih (Kiang She), Han dynasty.  In conjunction with his wife he devoted  himself to waiting on his aged mother. To  gratify her he went everyday to a pond to  draw drinking water and obtain fresh fish  for her table. The devotion was rewarded  by a miracle. A spring burst forth close  by his home, and a pair of carp were daily  produced for his mother.  21.   Wang P’ou (Wang Ngai), third century  c.e.   He sat beside a pine tree weeping  for his dead father so long and devot -  edly that he caused the tree to rot.  22.   Ting Lan, first century   c.e.   After his  mother’s death he preserved a wooden  image of her to which he offered the  same respect he had offered her during  her life. One day, while he was absent  from home, his neighbor Chang Shu  came to borrow some household arti -  cles. Ting Lan’s wife inquired by divin -  ing   slips   whether   the   image   mother  would consent to lend the articles. She  received a negative reply. The neighbor  then struck the image. When Ting Lan  returned home, he saw the image of his  mother had an expression of displea -  sure. He then went to beat the neighbor  who had insulted his mother.  23.   Men Tsung (Men Sung), third century  c.e.   One cold winter day Men Tsung’s  mother expressed a craving to eat stewed  bamboo shoots. Weeping because such  a delicacy could not be gotten so early  in the year, Men Tsung still went out to  search the snow. He found under the  352   Erh-shih-ssu Hsiao

=== 페이지 370 ===
snow a fresh-grown shoot of unequaled  succulence, which he then brought his  mother. In Japanese legend Men Tsung  is called Moso or Kobu.  24.   Huang   T’ing-chien   (Hwang   T’ing-  kien), 1050–1110. One of the four great  scholars of the Sung dynasty, who was  deeply devoted to his parents, taking  care of his sick mother.  Paul Carus, commenting on the series in his  book   Chinese Thought,   wrote: “Some of the sto -  ries seem silly to us.   .   .   . Still, it will be wise for  us whose habits of life suffer from the opposite  extreme .   .   . to recognize that all of them are per -  vaded with a noble spirit of respect for parents,  which though exaggerated is none the less touch -  ing and ought to command our admiration.”  See also:   chih nu; confucius  Erichthonius   (much earth)   In Greek myth-  ology, culture hero, fourth king of Athens, who  had serpent’s tails for legs. Erichthonius was  the son of Hephaestus, the lame god, whose  sperm fell on the ground when he attempted  to rape Athena. Athena placed Erichthonius in  a basket with a serpent, and she then gave the  basket to the Cecrops daughters, telling them  not to look inside. Aglauros, one of the sisters,  opened the basket and was punished by Athena,  who made her insane or killed her. Erichthonius  reigned   for   50   years   and   invented   chariots.  Athena gave Erichthonius two drops of blood  from the Gorgon. One was poisoned, but the  other healed. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 2) and  Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library) tell his story.  See also:   apollodorus; athena; cecrops;  gorgons; hephaestus; ovid  Erigone   (plentiful offspring)   In Greek myth-  ology, daughter of Icarius of Athens. She was  raped by Dionysus, who transformed himself  into a grape. When her father was murdered,  she hanged herself and was transformed into  the constellation Virgo. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 6) tells the tale. A second Erigone was  the daughter of Aegisthus and Clytemnestra,  sister of Aletes. She had an adulterous affair  with Orestes and bore Penthilus and, according  to variant accounts, Tisamenus. She killed her -  self when Orestes was acquitted for the murder  of Clytemnestra, their mother.  See also:   aegisthus; dionysus; orestes; ovid  Erisichthon   (wool of the earth, much earth)  In Greek mythology, a sacrilegious person, son  of Triopas and Hiscilla of Thessaly; brother  of Iphimedeia, Messene, and Phorbas; father  of Mestra. Mestra could take any beast form,  which was a gift from her lover, Poseidon.  Erisichthon would sell Mestra in one form  of animal, and she would return in another.  When Erisichthon cut down a sacred grove  belonging to the goddess Demeter, she cursed  him with an insatiable hunger, so he ate his  own legs and eventually his whole body. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 8) tells of his fate.  See also:   demeter; ovid; poseidon; shape -  shifter  Erlik   (Irlek) (first life)   In Siberian mythol -  ogy, the devil, also known as Shulman.  Various myths are told of the origin of  Erlik. In some he was originally a man who  helped the creator god Ulgen make the earth,  though later he turned against Ulgen. In a vari -  ant myth Erlik is said to have been originally  some mud in human form to which Ulgen gave  life as it floated on the ocean.  In another variant, when Ulgen ran out of  mud and left the people to dry, he left a huge  dog as guard. Erlik saw the people and tried to  bribe the dog to let him have them. The dog  refused, and Erlik spat on them, covering them  with saliva. Upon Ulgen’s return he saw this  and turned the people inside out. To this day  humans are dry on the outside and foul and wet  on the inside.  These   myths   agree   that   Erlik   will   be  destroyed at the end of the world. In myths told  by the Torgot, Erlik is called Shulman. In one,  Shulman created three suns in order to burn  the earth, which had been newly created by  Burkhan- Bakshi, a creator god. But Burkhan,  Erlik   353

=== 페이지 371 ===
taking the form of the hero Erkhe-Mergen,  shot down the extra two suns, letting them  fall into the sea, so that only one remained.  In a variant myth Burkhan-Bakshi covered the  uninhabited earth with water and destroyed the  extra suns. Erlik is also called Erlik-Khan (great  man), meaning that he is lord of the dead. He  sends out his fellow evil spirits to seize the souls  of those who have sinned.  See also:   burkhan; earth diver; ulmen  Erl-King   In Germanic legend, king of the  elves   or   dwarfs.   He   was   believed   to   be   a  malevolent   goblin   of   the   Black   Forest   in  Germany who lured children to their deaths.  He appears in Goethe’s literary ballad “Der  Erlkönig,” which was translated by Sir Walter  Scott as “The Erl-King” and set to music in  the original German by Schubert. The name  comes from the Danish   elverkonge   (elf king),  but was misunderstood as   Erl   and has since  been referred to that way. The ballad depicts  a father riding with his child. The child sees  “the Erl-King with his crown and his shroud”  waiting for him. The Erl-King then calls the  boy to come with him. The father attempts to  save the boy, the Erl-King wins, and the boy  is dead in his father’s arms. Sir Walter Scott’s  note says, “To be read by a candle particularly  long in the snuff.”  ermine   A weasel having a white winter coat,  often used as a symbol of chastity and purity  in medieval and Renaissance folklore. It was  believed that if the ermine was surrounded  by mud it would prefer to be captured rather  than dirty its white coat trying to escape. In  Christian art St. Mary Magdalene’s cloak is  sometimes made of ermine to indicate that  the former prostitute had reformed her ways.  Ermine was often used to line royal garments  in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. In some  Renaissance art works the Roman goddess of  wisdom, Minerva, is portrayed with an ermine  to represent virtue.  See also:   mary magdalene, st.; minerva  Eros   (sexual   desire)   In   Greek   mythology,  god of love, son of Aphrodite and Ares, or of  Chaos with Gaea or Tartarus, or of Aphrodite  and Hephaestus; brother of Anteros, Deimos,  Enyo, Harmmia, Pallor, and Phobus; married to  Psyche; father of Delight; called Cupid by the  Romans. Erotica, a festival in Eros’s honor, was  celebrated with sports and games every fifth year  by the Thespians. Associated with Eros was his  brother Anteros, god of mutual love; Peithos,  goddess of persuasion; Himeros, god of desire;  Pothos, god of longing; and the Muses and  Graces. In art, especially as the Roman Cupid,  he is often portrayed as a small baby with wings,  though he is a youth in the famous statue in  Piccadilly Circus in London, and a handsome  youth in Apuleius’s story of Cupid and Psyche.  Eros appears in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1), Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 1), Apuleius’s   The Golden  354   Erl-King  Lady with an Ermine   (Leonardo da Vinci)

=== 페이지 372 ===
Ass,   Keats’s   Endymion   and “Ode to Psyche,” and  Robert Bridges’   Eros   and   Psyche.  See also:   aeneid, the ; anteros; aphrodite;  ares; gaea; hephaestus; psyche; tartarus  Erulus   (little   lord)   In   Roman   mythology,  a king of Italy, son of Feronia, goddess of the  orchard and woods. He had three arms and  three lives and had to be killed three times the  same day by Evander. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 8)  records his fate.  See also:   aeneid, the;   evander; feronia  Eruncha   In   Australian   mythology,   devils  who turn people into medicine men. In some  accounts, however, the Eruncha are said to eat  medicine men.  Erymanthian boar   In Greek mythology, the  boar captured by Heracles as his fourth labor;  it   lived   on   Mount   Erymanthus   in   Arcadia.  Erymanthus is also the name of a son of Apollo  who was blinded by Aphrodite because he had  seen the goddess bathing. In retaliation Apollo  transformed   himself   into   a   boar   and   killed  Admis, the young lover of Aphrodite.  See   also:   aphrodite;   apollo;   arcadia;  heracles  Erytheis   (crimson)   In   Greek   mythology,  one of the Hesperides who guarded the Golden  Apples in the garden of the Hesperides.  See also:   golden apples of the hesperides;  hesperides  Erzulie   (Erzilie,   Erzulia)   In   Haitian   voo -  doo, mother goddess, wife of Agwé. She repre -  sents jealousy, vengeance, and discord but also  love, perpetual help, goodwill, health, beauty,  and fortune. In her demonic role she is called  Marinette-Bois Chèche, Erzulie Toho, Erzulie  Zandor, and Erzulie Mapiangueh, and in that  aspect she causes the people she mounts or  possesses to twist in fantastic convulsions. In  her beneficent aspect she is called Tsilah Wédo  and Ayida. Her symbol is often a heart pierced  by swords, the same as that of the Virgin Mary  in Christian symbolism.  See also:   agwé; ayida; virgin mary  Esau   (hairy)   In the Bible, O.T., Isaac’s old -  est son and twin brother of Jacob. Esau sold his  birthright to Jacob for some pottage (lentils)  (Gen. 25:24–34). Esau was an ancestor of the  Edomites.  See also:   jacob  Eshu   In African mythology (Yoruba of south -  western Nigeria), a trickster who acts as media -  tor between Olorun, the sky god, and the peo -  ple. He also is a judge who mediates between  the benevolent and malevolent supernatural  powers. Eshu, who knows all languages, brings  down the messages of Olorun to the people  and brings up the people’s sacrifices to the sky  god. He also presides over chance, accidents,  and unpredictability, and he lurks in highways,  crossroads, and gateways to trick people. Once  he had an argument with Shango, the thunder  god, over which of them was more powerful.  Eshu   355  Eros (Cupid) shooting an arrow

=== 페이지 373 ===
Eshu, who could change shape and size at  will, made his penis grow to an enormous size,  frightening the other god, who admitted Eshu  was the greater of the two. Another time Eshu  deliberately brought chaos into the home of a  man who was living comfortably with his two  wives. Disguising himself as a merchant, Eshu  sold a beautiful hat to one of the wives, which  made the other very jealous. The second wife  bought an even more beautiful hat, until at  last rivalry and despair characterized the man’s  life and household. Eshu is sometimes called  Elegbara.  See also:   legba; olorun; orisha; shango;  trickster  Esmun   (Ashmun,   Eshmoun,   Eshmun,   Es-  moun,   Esmounos)   In   Near   Eastern   myth-  ology (Syro-Phoenician), sun god of vital force  and   healing,   worshipped   at   his   patron   city  of Carthage. He was loved by the goddess  Astronoe, but when she was about to capture  him, he cut off his genitals with an ax. He  was then turned into a god of generative heat.  Esmun was combined with the goddess Astarte,  forming a composite male and female deity,  Esmun-Astarte.  See also:   astarte  Essus   (Esus, Hesus)   (lord)   In Celtic myth-  ology, god of vegetation and war, mentioned  Jacob’s Reconciliation with Esau   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  356   Esmun

=== 페이지 374 ===
by ancient Roman writers and identified with  Mars or Mercury. Human sacrifices were made  to Essus with the victims suspended from trees  and ritually wounded. The priests then read  omens from the way the blood ran from their  wounds.  See also:   mars; mercury  Esther   (a form of Ishtar, goddess of sexual  love)   In the Bible, O.T., a Jewish heroine. In  Hebrew her name is Hadassah (myrtle). Esther  was chosen to replace Queen Vashti, wife of  King Ahasuerus (Xerxes), after the queen insult -  ed the king. Esther did not tell the king she was  a Jewess. On the advice of her uncle Mordecai  she helped destroy Haman, who wished to mas -  sacre the Jews. This deliverance is celebrated by  Jews today at the Feast of Purim.  The Old Testament Book of Esther never  once mentions God. Martin Luther hated the  Book of Esther, saying it would have been bet -  ter if it had been left out of the Old Testament.  Jean Racine’s   Esther   is based on the Book of  Esther in the Vulgate Latin translation of the  Bible, which contains passages not found in  the King James translation of the Hebrew text.  Artemesia   Gentileschi   painted   Esther   before  Ahasuerus,   and Rembrandt painted   Haman Beg -  ging Esther for Forgiveness.   An epic poem,   Esther,  by Jean Desmarets de Saint-Sorlin is based on  the biblical tale. Handel’s oratorio   Esther   also  deals with the heroine.  See also:   ahasuerus; ishtar; myrtle  Estmere   In medieval English legend, a king  who defeated a Moorish king and won the daugh -  ter of King Adland. The happy-go-lucky Estmere  was advised by Adler (either a bosom friend or  his brother, depending on which account of the  legend is followed) to seek a wife. The two set  out for King Adland’s palace. He welcomed them  after he had determined they were Christians.  They asked to see his daughter, and he informed  them that a Moor, King Bremor, had wanted his  daughter’s hand in marriage but he had refused  because Bremor was not a Christian. Bremor  threatened to return. When the princess was  introduced to Estmere, she fell in love with him.  When Bremor returned, Estmere defeated him,  and King Adland allowed Estmere to marry his  daughter. An English ballad tells one version of  the tale. It was set to music by Gustav Holst for  chorus and orchestra.  Estrildis   In British mythology, the daughter  of a German king and mistress to King Humber  of Britain. When Humber was drowned in the  river that bears his name, Locrine fell in love  with Estrildis and would have married her had  he not been betrothed already to Guendoloena.  However, the two became lovers, and Estrildis  bore a daughter named Sabrina.  Estsanatlehi   (woman   who   changes)   In  North American Indian mythology (Navaho),  mother earth, who renews youth with the sea -  sons, brings female rain, and has power over all  reproduction on earth. She helped create light  for the world through the use of her white shell  and turquoise beads and by using a magic crys -  tal. She left the earth to live with her husband  beyond the waters. She is also called Whiteshell  Woman, Ashonnutli, and Changing Woman.  Etana   (Etanna)   (strong)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology (Babylonian), hero who ascended  to the heavens on the back of an eagle only to  fall back to earth.  The myth of Etana is found in fragmentary  form. It has been pieced together by scholars. Esther  Etana   35 

=== 페이지 375 ===
One section tells how Etana prayed to the sun  god, Shamash, to give a son to his wife by reveal -  ing to him the place where the “plant of life” was  to be found. How the “plant of life” was found by  the hero, however, is missing in the fragment.  Another part of the myth tells of the miracu -  lous journey Etana made to the heavens on the  back of an eagle. The eagle kept taking the hero  higher and higher, past the abode of the gods  Anu, Bel, and Ea, to where the great goddess  Ishtar lived. But Etana, not able to bear the jour -  ney, fell to the earth, taking the eagle with him.  The character of Etana also appears in the  Babylonian epic poem   Gilgamesh,   in which he  is said to have founded a kingdom.  See also:   anu; bel; ea; eagle; gilgamesh;  ishtar; shamash  Eteocles   and   Polynices   (true   glory   and  much   strife)   In   Greek   mythology,   sons   of  Oedipus and Jocasta (or Euryganeia); brothers  of Antigone and Ismene. Both sons had insulted  their blind father, Oedipus, by giving him a cup  that had once belonged to Laius and by giving  him a portion of meat not fit for a king. Oedipus  cursed both sons. They were to rule jointly after  their father’s death. Eteocles refused to surren -  der the throne when his brother’s turn came.  In the ensuing war both brothers were killed in  one-to-one combat. Aeschylus’s   Seven against  Thebes   and Euripides’   The Phoenician Woman  deal with the tragic tale.  See also:   jocasta; oedipus  Ethne   (Ethlinn,   Ethna,   Eithne,   Ethnee,  Ethnea, Aithne) (little fire)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, the daughter of the god-king of Balor,  who was informed by a Druid that his daughter  would have a child who would kill him. King  Balor therefore imprisoned Ethne in a tower  on Tory Island in the charge of 12 matrons who  were forbidden to tell her that men existed.  Earlier Balor had stolen a magic cow belonging  to Kian, who now avenged himself on the king  by disguising himself as a woman and entering  the tower. From Ethne and Kian’s intercourse  three children were born, whom Balor ordered  drowned.   But   one,   Lugh,   was   accidentally  spared and later killed Balor.  See also:   balor  etiological tale   (explanatory tale;   Natursage ;  pourquoi   story)   Some local tales explain the  existence of a geographical feature of the land -  scape, such as a mountain or a river. Other such  tales explain the origins or characteristics of a  variety of animals, plants, or heavenly bodies  like the stars, sun, and moon, and still others  clarify the origins of humanity and its institu -  tions, rites, taboos, or customs. Even though  the tales are sometimes long and detailed, their  purpose seems to be to explain the existence  of   this   phenomenon,   whether   geographical  or human. Such explanations usually appear  at the end of the tale, and can be found in a  wide variety of narratives, such as the folktale,  the myth, or the hero tale. An example is the  Korean fable   The Fire Dogs.  See also:   fire dogs.  Etna   (Aetna,   Etna)   In   Greek   and   Roman  history and mythology, volcanic mountain on  the eastern coast of Sicily where the forge of  Hephaestus, god of fire, was located and where  Zeus confined the giants. The volcano is said  to be named after Aetna, daughter of Briareus  (or Uranus) and mother, by Hephaestus, of the  two Palici volcanoes.  See also:   hephaestus; uranus; zeus  Etzel   (little father)   Name given in Germanic  legend to Attila the Hun. In the epic poem the  Nibelungenlied,   Etzel marries Kriemhild, the  widow of Siegfried. She is called Gudrun in  the   Volsunga Saga,   where Attila is given the  name Atli.  See also:   attila; kriemhild;   nibelungen -  lied ; siegfried;   volsunga saga  Eudora   (generous)   In   Greek   mythology,  one of the Nereids, the 50 daughters of Nereus  and Doris who attended Poseidon. Homer’s  Iliad   (book 18), Hesiod’s   Theogony,   and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   all mention the Nereids.  35    Eteocles and Polynices

=== 페이지 376 ===
See also:   doris; hesiod;   iliad, the;   nereids;  ovid; poseidon  Euhemerus   (spending   days   cheerfully)  Fourth century   b.c.e.   Greek writer on mythol -  ogy whose book   Sacred History   theorizes that  the gods were originally humans who were  later deified.  Eunomia   (good   government)   In   Greek  mythology,   one   of   the   Horae;   goddess   of  order and legislation, daughter of Zeus and  Themis. Her sisters were Eirene (peace) and  Dice (justice).  See also:   eirene; horae; themis; zeus  Euphrosyne   (good cheer)   In Greek myth-  ology, one of the three Graces. The others  were   Aglaea   (splendor)   and   Thalia   (abun -  dance). They were all daughters of Zeus and  Eurynome.  See also:   aglaea; thalia; zeus  Eurydice   (wide justice)   In Greek mythology,  a dryad, wife of Orpheus, who died of a snake -  bite as she fled from Aristaeus. Orpheus went to  the underworld in search of her. He was given  permission to return Eurydice to life if he would  not look back before he reached the upper  earth. Orpheus did and lost Eurydice forever.  The myth is told in Vergil’s   Georgics IV,   Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 10), Milton’s “L’Allegro,”  and Landor’s   Orpheus and Eurydice.   The many  operas on the subject include Monteverdi’s   La  Favola d’Orfeo   (1607), Gluck’s   Orfeo ed Euridice,  and Offenbach’s comic opera   Orphee aux enfers  (Orpheus in the Underworld) (1858).  See also:   aristaeus; orpheus; ovid  Eurytion   (full-flowing little one)   In Greek  mythology, a centaur who caused the fight at  the wedding of Pirithous and Hippodameia.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12) tells the tale.  The same name is born by the herdsman of  Geryon, king of Erythia. Both he and his dog  Orthus were killed by Heracles during his 10th  labor. The name is also held by a companion of  Aeneas in Italy who was a great archer.  See also:   aeneas; centaurs; geryon; hera -  cles; ovid  Eustace,   St.   (plentiful   harvest)   (second  century)   In   Christian   legend,   patron   saint  of hunters. Feast, 20 September. His legend is  similar to St. Hubert’s, and the two are often  confused in legend and art. Eustace’s life is  found in   The Golden Legend,   a collection of  saints’ lives written in the 13th century by  Jacobus de Voragine.  Eustace, whose Roman name was Placidus,  was a Roman soldier under the Emperor Tra -  jan. He had a wife and two sons. One day, while  hunting in the forest, he saw a white stag of  “marvelous beauty” and pursued it. The stag  fled and ascended a high rock. Then Placidus,  looking up, beheld “between the horns of the  stag, a cross of radiant light, and on it the image  of the crucified Redeemer.” He was dazzled by  the vision and fell to his knees. A voice cried  out: “Placidus? Why dost thou pursue me?  Orpheus and Eurydice  (Marcantonio Raimondi)  Eustace, St.   35 

=== 페이지 377 ===
I am Christ, whom thou hast hitherto served  without knowing me. Dost thou now believe?”  “Lord, I believe,” Placidus said.  Placidus went home, converted his wife and  sons, and in a short time was arrested for being  a Christian. The family was asked to sacrifice  to the Roman gods. They refused and were  placed in a brazen, or bronze, bull and roasted  to death.  See also:   golden legend, the ; hubert, st.  Evander   (good man)   In Roman mythology,  culture hero, son of the nymph Carmenta and  the god Hermes (or Sarpedon and Laodameia),  married Deidamia; father of Pallantia, Pallas,  Dyna, Roma, and Sarpedon II. He settled near  Rome after the Trojan War. Evander intro -  duced the Greek alphabet and worship of the  gods, and he built Pallanteum on the Palatine  Hill outside Rome. He was honored by the  Romans as a god and worshipped at an altar  built on Mount Aventine. Evander appears in  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 8), where he kills Erulus  three times in one day.  See also:   aeneid, the;   carmenta; hermes  Evangeline   In   American   literary   folklore,  name given Emmeline Labiche by Henry W.  Longfellow in his narrative   Evangeline,   in dactyl -  ic hexamters. The basis for the legend was told  by the Reverend Horace Lorenzo Connolly, an  Episcopal priest, to Nathaniel Hawthorne, with  the view that the author would use it for a novel,  but Hawthorne said, “The story is not in my  vein,” and offered it to Longfellow.  The legend tells how Emmeline Labiche  was raised in the French village of St. Gabriel  in Acadia, now Nova Scotia. She was to be  married to Louis Arceneau, a childhood sweet -  heart. When the British dispersed the colony,  Emmeline and Louis were separated, only to  meet years later when he was about to marry  another woman. Emmeline went insane and  died a few years later.  Longfellow took the bare facts and wove  them   into   an   American   literary   legend   in  1847. In his poem the lovers are separated,  and Gabriel (the name given to Louis) and his  father make their way to Louisiana. Evangeline  continues to seek them. After years of wander -  ing she settles in Philadelphia, becoming a Sis -  ter of Mercy. There, during a plague, she sees a  dying old man. Realizing it is Gabriel, she dies  of shock, and the two are buried in a Catholic  cemetery. Longfellow’s poem, one of the most  popular in American literature, was used as the  basis for three operas.  In Louisiana, the story was transformed  by   the   French   Creole   educator   and   writer  Madame   Sidonie   de   la   Houssaye   into   the  French novel   Pouponne et Balthazar   (1888), in  which Evangeline and Gabriel were depicted  as upper-class French Creoles who frowned on  their Acadian neighbors. The story serves as a  source of ethnic pride and has taken on mytho -  logical status among upper classes. Among the  working class the subject is viewed with apathy  or even derision, as we see in the lyrics of a  Cajun song: “Gabriel, il etait pas beau [Gabriel  wasn’t goodlooking], / Evangeline ne se valait  pas   mieux   [Evangeline   wasn’t   any   better].”  Statues of the heroine have been erected in  Grand Pré, Nova Scotia, and St. Martinville,  Louisiana.  See also:   fakelore  Evangelists, The Four   (publishers of glad  tidings)   In   Christian   tradition,   Matthew,  Mark,   Luke,   and   John,   credited   with   the  authorship of the four Gospels in the New  Testament. During the Middle Ages Matthew  was portrayed as a man with an angel nearby,  or a winged man; Mark as a lion; Luke as an  ox; John as an eagle. St. Jerome set down the  generally accepted interpretation of the sym -  bolism. Matthew was given the angel or human  semblance because he begins his account with  the human generation of Christ; Mark has the  lion because he tells the royal dignity of Christ;  Luke has an ox because he dwells on the sacri -  fice of Christ; and John has the eagle because  he dwells on the divinity of Christ.  See also:   jerome, st.; john the evangelist,  st.; luke, st.; mark, st.; matthew, st.  360   Evander

=== 페이지 378 ===
Eve   (the mother of all living?)   In the Bible,  O.T., first woman, wife of Adam, mother of  Cain, Abel, and Seth. (Gen. 3:1–24).  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla; cain and abel; khadau and  mamaldi  evil eye   This is a widespread folk belief that  someone possessing an evil eye has the power to  cause harm to another individual or that person’s  property. The person who possesses the evil eye  may be male or female, and the action may be  voluntary or involuntary. The harm consists of  illness, or sometimes even death or complete  destruction. The victim’s good looks, fortune,  or health provoke an attack by the person with  the evil eye. Animate objects become ill, inani -  mate objects such as a building may crack or fall  down. If the object attacked is a cow, its milk  will dry up; if it is a plant or a tree, it will wither  and die. Prevention is accomplished by wearing  an amulet, giving certain hand gestures, or spit -  ting. A particularly good example of this belief  is found in the movie version of the   Rose Tatoo  by Tennessee Williams. When the lead female  character, who is pregnant, is suddenly con -  fronted by a little old witchlike woman with an  evil eye, she quickly touches the cross hanging  around her neck and then raises her right hand  with her index and little fingers raised and spits  through the opening in the direction of the old  woman. She is clearly afraid that her milk will  dry up or that the child will be stillborn.  Exaltation of the Holy Cross   Medieval  Christian feast, celebrated 14 September, often  called Holy Cross Day. The feast commemo -  rates   the   return   to   Jerusalem   in   630   of   a  relic of the true cross. The tale is told in   The  Golden Legend   by Jacobus de Voragine. The  emperor Heraclius (c. 575–641) defeated King  Chrosröes (Khrosrow II) of the Persians, who  had taken a piece of the true cross and used it  to make up part of his throne. For his impiety  Heraclius had Chrosöves killed and took back  The Cross   (Albrecht Dürer)  Eve  Exaltation of the Holy Cross   36 

=== 페이지 379 ===
the part of the true cross. As he was entering  Jerusalem   through   the   gate   through   which  Jesus came, stones fell, barring his entrance.  An angel appeared, telling Heraclius that Jesus  entered on a donkey, not dressed in royal garb.  The king then stripped himself to his shirt and  carried in the relic, as the stones miraculously  moved out of his way.  See also:   golden legend, the  Excalibur   (to   free   from   the   stone?)   In  Arthurian legend, the sword of King Arthur.  The sword was given to Arthur by the Lady of  the Lake, according to some accounts. When  Arthur lay dying he commanded Sir Bedivere  to return Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake.  Sir Bedivere threw the sword into the waters,  and an arm clothed in white samite appeared  to receive it. Arthur’s sword is sometimes called  Caliburn and Caledvwlch.  See also:   arthur; bedivere, sir; lady of  the lake  exemplum   (Latin,   exempla,   plural)   A tale told  to illustrate an ethical or theological point and  usually attributed to a religious specialist. The  sources for these tales are the Bible, lives of the  saints, books of miracles, history, legend, and  descriptions of natural happenings. The golden  age for the exemplum was from the 13th to the  15th century, during which time the most famous  of all collections appeared, the   Gesta Romanorum,  published in England around 1300.  Exodus   (a going out)   In the Bible, Greek  title of the Old Testament book telling of the  escape by the Israelites from their bondage  in Egypt. The book is the second part of the  Pentateuch, or Torah, giving the account of  Moses’ birth, the Israelites’ departure from  Egypt, and their journey to Palestine. The  Ten Commandments are found in chapter 20,  verses 1–18. Handel’s oratorio   Israel in Egypt  uses the book as a basis for its libretto.  exorcism   The   expelling   of   evil   spirits   or  demons   by   prayers,   incantations,   and   rites,  practiced in all religions that admit the exis -  tence of demonic forces in the world.  Pagan,   Jewish,   Christian,   and   Islamic  religions all believed in demonic possession.  Lucian, writing in the second century   c.e.,   tells  of a professional exorcist:  .   .   . everyone already knows this remark -  able man who in the case of people falling  down at the sight of the moon, rolling  their eyes and foaming at the mouth .   .   .  sends them home free from their infir -  mity, for which he charges a large sum  each time. When he is with sick persons  he asks them how the devil entered into  them; the patient remains silent, but the  devil   replies,   in   Greek   or   a   barbarian  tongue .   .   . how he has entered into the  man’s body.  In the Hebrew Old Testament demons are  sent directly by God. When King Saul is tor -  Sir Bedivere Casts Excalibur into the Lake  (Aubrey Beardsley)  362   Excalibur

=== 페이지 380 ===
mented (1 Sam. 16:14–16), it is God who is the  instigator:  But the Spirit of the Lord departed from  Saul,   and   an   evil   spirit   from   the   Lord  troubled him. And Saul’s servants said unto  him, “Behold now, an evil spirit from god  troubleth thee. Let our lord now command  thy servants, which are before thee, to seek  out a man, who is a cunning player on an  harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil  spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall  play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.”  King Saul is freed of his evil spirit by David,  the future king.  Medieval Jews also believed in demonic  possession and exorcism. In a typical example  a   woman   was   possessed   by   the   spirit   of   a  drunken Jew “who died without prayer and  impenitent.” His spirit wandered about for a  long time and was allowed to enter the wom -  an’s body when she was blaspheming against  God.   From   the   moment   of   possession   the  woman became a hysteric. A Jewish exorcist  was called in. He forced the demon to reveal  his true name and then, using the secret name  of God, forced the demon out “by the little toe  of the possessed.”  Christianity is filled with tales of possession,  beginning with accounts in the New Testament  in which Jesus acts as an exorcist. St. Zeno of  Verona wrote in the fourth century of demonic  possession:  .   .   . we cannot so much lay claim that the  souls of the dead live as rather prove it by  manifest facts. For the impure spirits of  both sexes which prowl hither and thith -  er, make their way by deceitful flatteries  or by violence into the bodies of living  men.   .   .   . His face is suddenly deprived  Exodus  exorcism   363

=== 페이지 381 ===
Ezekiel   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 382 ===
of colour, his body rises up of itself, the  eyes in madness roll in their sockets and  squint horribly, the teeth, covered with a  horrible foam, grind between blue-white  lips; the limbs twisted in all directions  are given over to trembling; he sighs,  he   weeps;   he   fears   the   appointed   day  of Judgment and complains that he is  driven out; he confesses his sex, the time  and place he entered into the man, he  makes known his name and the date of  his   death,   or   shows   by   manifest   signs  who he is; so that we generally learn that  there are many of these who, according  to our own memory, persisting in the  worship of idols, have recently died a  violent death.  Belief in demonic possession can still be  found in major Christian churches. The Roman  Catholic church has a whole section devoted to  exorcism in   The Roman Ritual,   the introduc -  tion to which begins “That there is a world of  demons is a teaching of revealed religion which  is perfectly clear to all who know Sacred Scrip -  ture and respect and accept its word as inspired  of God. It is part of the whole Christian-Judaeo  heritage.”  The   rite,   which   consists   of   prayers   and  psalms, opens with this passage: “I cast you out,  unclean spirit, along with every satanic power  of the enemy, every spectre from hell, and all  your fell companions; in the name of our Lord  Jesus Christ. Begone and stay far from this  creature of God.”  See also:   david; saul  Ezekiel   (may God make the child strong?)  (sixth century   b.c.e. )   In the Bible, Hebrew  prophet   and   title   of   a   book   in   the   Old  Testament. Ezekiel was taken captive by the  Babylonians   and   moved   from   Judah   to   the  banks of the Chebar River in Babylonia (Ezek.  1:1). His book, filled with lurid visions, divides  as follows: Ezekiel’s call (1:1–3:27), prophe -  cies of doom of Jerusalem (4:1–24:27), God’s  judgment on the nations (25:1–32:32), God’s  promises (33:1–37:28), prophecy against God  (38:1–39:29), and a vision of the future temple  and land (40:1–48:35).  In Islamic legend, Hizqil is the name given  to Ezekiel. He is believed to be referred to in  the Koran (sura 2), although not by name.  The prophet appears in Duccio di Buon -  insegna’s   The Nativity   with the prophet Isaiah.  He sometimes appears with a scroll in Western  art with the Latin form of one of his sayings:  Porta haec clausa erit; non aperietar   (this gate  shall be shut, it shall not be opened, and no  man shall enter in by it) (Ezek. 44:2) Medieval  writers made the text refer to the perpetual  virginity of St. Mary.  See also:   isaiah; koran, the  Ezra   (help)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,   a   Jewish  priest who led the Jews back to Jerusalem from  their captivity in Babylon, about 300   b.c.e.   The  Book of Ezra, a sequel to Chronicles, tells his  story. He is called Esdras in the Apocrypha. In  Islamic legend his name is Uzair. He is men -  tioned in the Koran (sura 9), which says, “The  Jews say Uzair is a son of God.”  See also:   koran, the  Ezra   365  Ezra

=== 페이지 383 ===
6  366  Fa   In   African   cult,   a   system   of   divina -  tion taken from the Yoruba of southwestern  Nigeria and practiced by the Fon of Benin.  When the supreme god Mawu completed the  creation of the world, two messengers named  Koda and Chada were sent to the earth to tell  man that each person must have his own Fa.  Fa can be loosely defined as the knowledge or  destiny given by God to each man whereby he  may come to know how to perform the will of  the Creator. It is a system by which one comes  to learn the kind of behavior expected of him.  One man was selected to contact the oracle  by manipulation of nuts from a special palm  tree. If the nuts of the palm tree were handled  properly, the eyes of Fa would be opened and  man would be able to gain a glimpse of the  future. This complicated method of divina -  tion would permit man to foretell his destiny.  A selected group of heavenly messengers were  taught how to work the oracle. The nuts of  the palm tree were thrown from one hand  to the other. A pattern resulted when one  counted the number of nuts left over from the  throw. Often this pattern was carved on the  skin of a calabash, which was placed in a bag  so that the secret of one’s future could remain  hidden from those who might use this infor -  mation against one.  See also:   eshu; legba; mawu lisa  Fabiola, St.   (bean grower)   (died 399)   In  Christian legend, friend of St. Jerome. Feast,  27 December. Fabiola had divorced her drunk -  en husband and remarried. After her second  husband’s death she devoted her life to works of  charity, establishing the first Christian hospital  in the West. When she told St. Jerome she  wished to settle in Bethlehem, he advised her  against it, saying she was too lively. Thousands  attended her funeral when she died in Rome.  See also:   jerome, st.  Fafnir   In Norse mythology, a dragon guardian  of gold, son of Hreidmar and brother of Regin  and Otter. He was slain by the hero Sigurd, who  then bathed in his blood, making himself invul -  nerable, except for one spot between his shoul -  ders, where a linden leaf, sticking fast, prevented  the blood from touching.  In the   Volsunga Saga   Fafnir, in his lust for  gold, slays his father, Hreidmar, and steals the  skin of his dead brother, Otter, which contains  a gold treasure. To guard his treasure Fafnir  transforms himself into a dragon. Sigurd comes  to slay the dragon Fafnir and obtain the trea -  sure. He kills Fafnir by a ruse.  According   to   the   Volsunga   Saga,   Fafnir  engages in a long discussion with Sigurd to  discover who his murderer is, then dies. In   Der  Ring des Nibelungen   Richard Wagner makes  f

=== 페이지 384 ===
Fafner (Fafnir) one of the giants who built Val -  halla for Wotan (Odin). Fafner and his brother  Fasolt accept Alberich’s ring in place of the  beautiful goddess Freyja, the price originally  agreed on. Fafner kills Fasolt and changes him -  self into a dragon to guard his gold hoard. He is  eventually killed by Siegfried (Sigurd). Fafnir is  portrayed in Arthur Rackham’s illustrations for  Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   kriemhild;   nibelungenlied ;   ring  des nibelungen, der ; siegfried  Faith,   Hope,   and   Charity,   Sts.   (second  century?)   In medieval Christian legend, the  three saints were believed to be the children  of St. Sophia (holy wisdom). They were said to  have been martyred in Rome under the emper -  or Hadrian. In medieval Gothic art St. Faith is  often portrayed as a woman holding a cross or  chalice. Feast, 1 August. The English Puritans  introduced the English words Faith, Hope, and  Charity as given names in the 16th century.  fakelore   In American folklore, a term coined  by Richard Dorson in 1950 to describe “the  presentation of spurious and synthetic writings  under the claim that they are genuine folklore.”  According to Dorson, fakelore is the product of  writers, not of the anonymous folk or what he  referred to as the “folk process.” Dorson’s term  was offered as a response to Benjamin Botkin’s  A Treasury of American Folklore   (1944), which  was widely and positively acclaimed, but which  was little more than an “uncritical encomium”  that   was   intended   for   the   marketplace.   In  Europe a similar term arose,   Folklorismus,   but  this term sought to legitimize scholarly investi -  gation of the commercialization of folklore for  the mass market and for tourism.  See also:   folklorism; joe magarac; paul  bunyan; pecos bill  Falcon and the Owls, The   Moral fable by  the Persian Sufi mystic and poet Rumi, in   The  Masnavi   (book 2, story 4).  A certain falcon lost his way and found  himself in a foul place inhabited by owls. The  owls suspected that the falcon had come to  seize their nests. They all surrounded him to  kill him. The falcon assured them that he had  no such design because he lived on the wrist of  the king and had no desire to live in their foul  place. The owls replied that he was trying to  deceive them, since such a strange bird as he  was could not possibly be the king’s favorite.  “It is true,” the falcon replied, “I am not  the same as the king, but yet the king’s light  is reflected in me, the same as water and earth  that nourish plants are part of the plant. I am,  as it were, the dust beneath the king’s feet. If  you become like me in this respect, you will be  exalted as I am. Copy the outward form you  behold in me, and perchance you will reach the  real substance of the king.”  See also:   masnavi, the  Fama   (reputation, report)   In Roman myth-  ology, goddess of fame; equivalent to the Greek  goddess Pheme. She was sometimes portrayed  blowing a trumpet.  Fan-Wang   In Chinese mythology, a creator  god who hatched the universe from a cosmic egg.  Fan-Wang is also found in Chinese Buddhist  mythology, not, however, as a creator god (which  Buddhism does not have) but as a deity inferior  to anyone who is on his way to Buddhahood.  Fama eluding her follower  Fan-Wang   36 

=== 페이지 385 ===
Faran   In African mythology (Songhai of the  upper Niger), hero who fought the water spirit  Zin-Kibaru. Each night Zin-Kibaru would play  his guitar, enticing fish to eat the rice that grew  in Faran’s pond. Faran was angered, and the two  decided to fight. During the battle each one cast  a spell on the other, but Faran’s spell was stron -  ger. Zin-Kibaru lost, leaving all of his magical  instruments and spirit followers to Faran.  See also:   zin  Farbauti   (cruel   striker)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy, the father of Loki, the fire-trickster god.  Loki’s mother was the giantess Laufey, or Nal.  Farbauti appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   loki;   prose edda  Far   Darria   In Irish folklore, a fairy who  wears a red cap and coat and spends his time at  practical joking, especially of a gruesome kind.  There are numerous motifs associated with Far  Darria: red fairy; fairy tricks mortals; mortals as  captives in fairyland.  See also:   motif  Faridun   (Feridoun,   Feridun,   Freydun)   In  the Persian epic poem   Shah Namah,   by Firdusi,  a hero who defeats the evil king Zahhak.  Firdusi’s portrait of Faridun is derived from  Traetaona, a hero of Persian mythology who  had fought with a demon, Azhi Dahaka. In  Firdusi’s epic Azhi Dahaka is transformed into  the evil king Zahhak, and Traetaona is called  Faridun. These changes were made to make  the poem acceptable to an Islamic audience  that did not want the ancient gods and heroes  mentioned in works by Islamic poets. (When  Islam conquered Persia, it all but wiped out  earlier beliefs.)  One night, according to   Shah Namah,   King  Zahhak dreamed that a young man hit him on  the head with a mace. When he awoke from  his dream, he asked his courtiers what the  dream signified, but they refused to give him  an answer. When they could no longer avoid  answering the king, they said it was an appari -  tion of Faridun, the hero who was “destined to  smite” the king on his head.  “But why,” demanded the king, “does the  youth wish to injure me?”  “Because his father’s blood will be spilled  by you, and he will have to avenge his father’s  death,” the courtiers replied.  As   the   courtiers   had   predicted,   Zahhak  had Abtin, the father of Faridun, killed, but  Faranuk, Faridun’s mother, and her newborn  child escaped. As she fled, she came upon a cow  named Pur’maieh, which yielded milk in abun -  dance. Because of the murder of her husband,  Faranuk’s milk had dried up, and the cow now  fed her little son, Faridun. The boy was placed  in the care of shepherds by his mother. After  some time his hiding place was discovered by  King Zahhak, and the shepherds who had pro -  tected the lad were killed, but Faridun eluded  the slaughterers.  When he was 16, his mother told him the  story of his father’s death at the hands of the  evil king, and Faridun resolved to avenge the  death.   After   numerous   adventures   Faridun  succeeded in his task and was made king. His  reign is described in   Shah Namah   by an envoy  to another court:  He who has never seen the spring  Would see it when he looked upon the  king.  A spring of Paradise, ’twas to behold,  Its dust of amber and its bricks of gold.  Upon his palace heav’n found resting place  With Paradise e’er smiling on its face  (Alexander Rogers translation).  Faridun had three sons, Silim, Tur, and  Irij. Silim continually prodded his brother Tur  to have Irij put to death, so that the kingdom  would pass to Tur. One day Tur attacked Irij  and cut off his head. Irij’s murder was later  avenged   by   Minuchihr,   who   was   Faridun’s  grandson.  See also:   azhi dahaka; minuchihr;   shah  namah ; zahhak  36    Faran

=== 페이지 386 ===
Farmer and the Leshy, The   In Slavic folk -  lore the leshy is a mischievous forest spirit, who  can assume any shape. Once a leshy disguised  himself as a pilgrim and asked a farmer in a  remote region of the south of Russia for hospi -  tality. The pilgrim was welcomed and received  a warm meal and a good room with a soft bed  for the night. The next morning, the farmer  told the pilgrim of a problem he had with his  cattle. When they went out to graze, they were  often killed by ferocious beasts from the forests.  “What shall I do?” asked the farmer. The guest  said he would send an assistant to help and that  the farmer should simply send the animals out  in the morning and they would come back safe  in the evening, but told the farmer that he must  promise never to follow to see what happened  to them. Even though the farmer feared that he  might lose his entire herd, he decided to follow  the advice of the pilgrim. For three years, the  animals went out in the morning and returned  in the evening, looking well fed and unharmed.  Even the cows’ milk had never been better.  One day, however, the farmer’s curiosity could  not be controlled and he followed the cattle to  their pasture. There sat an old woman, lean -  ing on her cane and swaying to a lullaby as  she rocked from side to side. When the farmer  tried to make her more comfortable and sug -  gested that she lie down and rest, she ignored  him and simply continued to rock from side  to side. Then, suddenly, she disappeared and  the dumbfounded farmer returned to his farm -  house. His cattle did not return home that  evening, and were never seen again. The old  woman had been the leshy’s assistant and when  the farmer broke his promise, he broke a spell  and paid the penalty.  See also:   leshy; shape-shifter  fasces   (bundles)   In   ancient   Roman   ritual,  birch or elm rods held together by a red thong.  Fasces were carried by lictors as the symbol of  authority of a Roman major magistrate. An ax  was added to the fasces to signify that not only  whipping but also death was within his power.  Italian Fascists adopted the symbol as well as  the name for their party, which was nominally  intended to restore the ancient power of Rome.  Fatima   (606?–632)   In Islamic legend, daugh -  ter of Muhammad by his first wife, Khadijah.  Fatima was the wife of Ali, a saint and warrior in  Islam. She was one of the four “perfect women.”  (The others were Khadija; Mary, daughter of  Imran; and Asiyah [Asia], wife of the pharaoh  drowned in the Red Sea.) In Islamic tradition  Fatima is called bright-blooming, which means  one who has never menstruated. In actuality, she  had three sons by Ali.  In the town of Fátima, near Leiria, Portu -  gal, the Virgin Mary appeared to three children  in 1917. The shrine, built in 1944, is called Our  Lady of the Rosary of Fátima. Some Roman  Catholic writings explain the appearance at the  small town as an indication that one day devo -  tion to the Virgin Mary will bring Islam under  the banner of Christianity.  Fatima is also the name of a holy woman  in the story of Aladdin in   The Thousand and  One Nights.   She is slain by the necromancer,  brother of the sorcerer. Dressed in Fatima’s  clothes, he makes his way into Aladdin’s house,  but Aladdin discovers the disguise and kills the  necromancer. The name is also that of the last  wife of Bluebeard in the well-known fairy tale.  See also:   aladdin; ali; bluebeard; muham -  mad;   thousand and one nights ; virgin mary  Faunus   (he who favors)   In Roman mythol -  ogy, an early Italian god of agriculture, shep -  herds, woods, and pastures; equivalent of the  Greek Pan. In art Faunus was portrayed as a  goatlegged half-human creature similar to a  Greek satyr. Fauns as the followers of Bacchus  appear in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 7). Debussy’s  tone poem   Prelude a l’Apres-Midi d’un faune  (Prelude   to   “The   Afternoon   of   a   Faun”),  inspired by Mallarmé’s poem about Faunus  and used as a ballet by Diaghilev’s company in  1912, also deals with the god.  See also:   aeneid, the ; pan; satyrs  Faunus   36 

=== 페이지 387 ===
Faust   (fortunate)   (16th   century)   In   Eu-  ropean history and legend, Dr. John Faustus, a  professional magician in Germany who, accord -  ing to legend, sold his soul to the devil. The idea  of making a pact with the devil for worldly gain  may be Jewish in origin and date back to the  time of Christ. The Faust legend is a conglom -  erate of anonymous folk traditions largely of  medieval origin. One of the first books dealing  with the legend,   The History of the Damnable Life  and Deserved Death of Dr. John Faustus,   has a deep  Protestant cast. Mephistopheles, the devil, wears  a Franciscan robe, and Faust, with his freethink -  ing and love of the ancients, is condemned for  opposing all authority, both state and church.  Among the most famous works dealing with the  subject are Marlowe’s play   Dr. Faustus   (1589)  and Goethe’s epic drama   Faust   (Part 1, 1808;  Part 2, 1832), which inspired numerous musical  settings, among them Schumann’s   Scenes from  Goethe’s Faust,   Berlioz’s   La Damnation de Faust,  and Gounod’s opera   Faust.   Other works include  Thomas Mann’s novel   Dr. Faustus   and Busoni’s  opera   Doktor Faust,   based on the European pup -  pet plays of Faust.  See also:   mephistopheles  Fear-Gorta   (man of hunger)   In Irish folk -  lore, the “man of hunger” who appears as an  emaciated phantom going through the land in  famine time, begging alms and bringing good  luck to the giver. It is said that he is so weak  he can barely lift his alms cup, and he has few  clothes to cover himself, even in winter.  Feathertop   In   American   literary   folklore,  scarecrow   given   life   by   the   witch   Mother  Rigby in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s short story  “Feathertop,”   included   in   Mosses   from   an  Old   Manse.   Mother   Rigby   creates   a   Lord  Ravensbane from a scarecrow to get revenge on  her former lover, Justice Merton, but Merton’s  daughter Rachel falls in love with the mirage.  When Feathertop and Rachel look in a glass,  however, his true identity is revealed. Fleeing,  he returns to Mother Rigby, casts away the  magic pipe that made him seem a human,  and   returns   to   being   a   scarecrow.   Mother  Rigby says, “Poor fellow! My poor, dear, pretty  Feathertop! There are thousands upon thou -  sands of coxcombs and charlatans in the world,  made up of just such a mumble of worn-out,  forgotten, and good-for-nothing trash as he  was! Yet they live in fair repute, and never see  themselves for what they are. And why should  my poor puppet be the only one to know him -  self and perish for it.” The tale was dramatized  by Percy MacKaye as   The Scarecrow,   which was  made into the silent film   Puritan Passions.  Febold   Feboldson   In   American   folklore,  hero of the Great Plains who could influence  weather conditions. Once when it was dry, he  hypnotized some frogs into croaking, telling  them it was raining. When the Indian rain god  heard all the croaking, he got a headache and  sent down rain to shut up the frogs. Febold  Feboldson appears in Paul R. Beath’s   Legends  of Febold Feboldson,   a pamphlet written for the  Federal Writers’ Project in Nebraska, and in  a later book   Febold Feboldson: Tall Tales from the  Great Plains.   How much of Feboldson’s legend  is Beath’s invention and how much is folklore  is still debated.  See   also:   fakelore; joe magarac; mike  fink; paul bunyan; pecos bill; wpa  Faust  3  0   Faust

=== 페이지 388 ===
Februata   (Februus)   In Roman mythology,  god of purification, whose name derives from  februa,   or rituals of purification, for which the  month of February is named. The Feralia was  the Roman All Souls Day (21 February), last  of the dies Parentales (which began at noon 13  February), when the family made offerings at  the graves of their dead. The feast is mentioned  in Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 2).  See also:   ovid  Felicitas and Her Seven Sons, St.   (lucky)  (second century)   In Christian legend, mar -  tyrs. Invoked by women who want sons. Feast,  10   July.   Coming   from   a   rich   Roman   fam -  ily, Felicitas was widowed and brought up her  seven sons as Christians. She was arrested, and  they were 341 Felicitas and Her Seven Sons,  St. 1173 killed one by one in front of her.  Finally, she was beheaded or placed in a boiling  caldron. Medieval art portrays her as a veiled  widow with a martyr’s palm surrounded by her  seven sons.  Feng-huang   In   Chinese   mythology,   the  phoenix; the male,   feng ; the female,   huang.   The  phoenix is the emperor of birds as the unicorn  is the emperor of quadrupeds. In Chinese belief  the unicorn does not prey on living creatures  and symbolizes peace and prosperity. The pair  of the male and female phoenix is inseparable  and symbolizes conjugal fidelity. In Japanese  the phoenix is called Ho-o.  See also:   phoenix; unicorn  Feng   Po   In   Chinese   mythology,   god   of  winds, often portrayed as an old man with a  white beard, yellow cloak, and blue and red  cap. In his hands he holds a sack that contains  the winds.  Fenrir   (Fenris)   (from the swamp)   In Norse  mythology, a giant wolf, son of the evil fire -  trickster   god,   Loki;   brother   of   Hel.   When  Fenrir opened his mouth one jaw touched the  earth and the other reached to heaven. Fenrir  is best known as the wolf who bit off the god  Tyr’s hand. “When the gods tried to persuade  the wolf Fenrir to allow the fetter Gleipnir to  be placed on him, he did not believe that they  would free him until they put Tyr’s hand in his  mouth as a pledge. Then, when the Aesir would  not loose him, he bit off the hand at the place  now known as the ‘wolf joint.’ [So Tyr] is one-  handed and he is not called a peace-maker.”  Fenrir was expected to swallow the god Odin at  the day of doom when gods, giants, people, and  the world would be destroyed. Fenrir appears  in the   Poetic Edda,   the   Prose Edda,   and a dra -  matic poem,   Fenris the Wolf,   by Percy MacKay  (1875–1956).  See also:   angurboda; hel; loki; nifelheim;  ragnarok; tyr; vidar  Ferdinand   III   of   Castile,   St.   (peace)  (died   1252)   In   Christian   legend,   king   of  Castile   when   he   was   18,   Ferdinand   spent  almost his entire life fighting the Moors. In one  battle he was aided by St. James the Apostle,  who helped his army kill thousands of Moors.  Ferdinand III of Castile, St.   3   Feng-huang

=== 페이지 389 ===
Only one Christian died in the battle. He is  buried in the cathedral at Seville, having been  canonized in 1668 at the request of Philip IV.  Feast, 30 May.  See also:   james the major, st.  Feronia   In Roman mythology, early Italian  goddess of groves, woods, orchards, and foun -  tains; patroness of ex-slaves; mother of Erulus,  a king of Italy who had three lives and had  to be slain by Evander three times before he  died. Feronia had a temple in Feronia near  Mount Soracte. A yearly sacrifice was made  to her. To wash one’s face and hands in her  sacred fountain near her temple was one of her  rites. Those worshippers whom the goddess  filled with her spirit were believed able to walk  barefoot over burning coals. Feronia is cited in  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 7).  See also:   aeneid, the;   erulus; evander  Fiacre,   St.   (seventh   century)   In   Christian  legend, abbot of Breuil; patron saint of garden -  ers, florists, trellis makers, box makers, brass  beaters,   coppersmiths,   lead   founders,   needle  makers, hosiers, tile makers, potters, and cab  drivers. Invoked against venereal disease, sterili -  ty, fistula, colic, tumors, and headache. Protector  of field and garden fruits. Feast, 1 September.  Fiacre was born in Ireland and sailed to  France to devote himself completely to God.  Arriving at Meaux, he was given a forest dwell -  ing called Breuil by St. Faro, the local bishop. St.  Faro offered St. Fiacre as much land as he could  turn up in a day. Instead of driving his furrow  with a plow, St. Fiacre turned the top of the soil  with the point of his staff. He cleared the ground  of trees and constructed a cell with a garden.  He also made a chapel to the Virgin Mary, and  a hospice for travelers later developed near it.  Known throughout the area for his healing pow -  Loki had three monstrous children: Fenrir, the wolf; Jormungand,  the Midgard Serpent; and Hel, queen of the underworld  3  2   Feronia

=== 페이지 390 ===
ers, many faithful often consulted the saint, but  he would not allow any women near his hermit -  age or the chapel. If a woman attempted to break  in, she was stopped by some supernatural power.  Some died on the spot. After St. Fiacre’s death  numerous miracles were claimed for his relics  at Meaux. Louis XIII was restored to health by  invoking the saint, as was Louis XIV.  St. Fiacre is the patron saint of Parisian cab  drivers because the first establishment to allow  coaches on hire in the 17th century was in the  rue Saint-Martin, near the Hotel Saint-Fiacre,  in Paris. French cabs are called   fiacres,   and the  word is still widely used in Europe for a horse-  drawn carriage.  See also:   virgin mary  Fides   (loyalty, trust)   In Roman mythology,  goddess of oaths, honesty, and faith. Numa  Pompilius, second king of Rome, was the first to  worship Fides. Her feast day was 1 October.  fieldwork   The   documentation   of   folklore  by means of note taking, participant observa -  tion, and, today, the use of various forms of  electronic recordings, such as tape, video, and  film. Library or “armchair scholarship” was  replaced in the early 20th century by direct  interpersonal interaction with informants. By  the 1960s, American folklorists became par -  ticularly   interested   in   performance-centered  field investigations that focused attention away  from the mere collection of items and more on  descriptions of folklore that permitted inter -  preting the items within their cultural, histori -  cal, and social contexts.  Fierabras,   Sir   (Ferumbras)   In   the   Charle-  magne cycle of legends, one of the paladins. He  was the son of Balan, king of Spain. Physically  he was noted for his stature, breadth of shoul -  der, and hardness of muscle. He controlled all  of Babylon to the Red Sea and was seigneur of  Russia, lord of Cologne, and master of Jerusalem  and even of the Holy Sepulcher. He carried  away the crown of thorns and the balsam used  to embalm the body of Jesus, one drop of which  would cure any sickness or heal any wound. One  of his major feats was the slaying of the “fearful,  huge giant that guarded the bridge Mantible.”  The bridge was noted for its 30 arches of black  marble. Fierabras was at first a Saracen knight.  He fought with the Christian knight Oliver, was  defeated, and converted. He was then accepted  by Charlemagne as a paladin. He died “meek as  a lamb and humble as a chidden slave.”  See also:   charlemagne; oliver; paladins,  the twelve  fig   A   fruit   tree.   The   fig   is   often   cited   in  European folklore as the fruit eaten by Adam  and Eve in the Garden of Eden, as the biblical  account in Genesis has the first couple cover -  ing “their nakedness” with fig leaves. Thus the  fig has come to be connected in Jewish and  Christian tradition with lust as well as fertility,  but when shown on its tree in art, it signifies  peace and plenty. An insulting sexual gesture,  called “making a fig,” is made by inserting the  thumb between the index and middle fingers,  indicating the vulva and the penis. Sicilian legend  says that Judas hanged himself on a fig tree, and  therefore the leaves of the tree house evil spirits.  Another Sicilian legend says that if a man rests  under a fig tree in the heat of summer a woman  dressed as a nun will come and ask whether he  will grasp the knife she is holding by the handle  or by the blade. If he grasps the blade, the nun  will stab him to death. If he grasps the handle,  she will help him in all of his endeavors. Fig  Sunday is an old name for Palm Sunday, because  figs were eaten on that day to commemorate  Jesus’ blasting of the barren fig tree.  In India the god Vishnu is sometimes wor -  shipped in the form of a fig tree, where, it is  believed, his spirit hovers. A sacred fig with roots  in heaven and branches and fruit on earth is a  symbol of the cosmic tree in many mythologies.  The fig is sacred to Buddha because he was  seated underneath the bo or pipal tree when he  received the perfect knowledge and enlighten -  ment of Nirvana.  fig   3  3

=== 페이지 391 ===
See also:   adam and eve; buddha; judas  iscariot; nirvana; vishnu  Finn   In Celtic mythology, hero who was the  son of Cumhal, a king of the Tuatha de Danann,  people of the goddess Danu. As a child Finn stud -  ied with a magician of the same name, who once  caught the Salmon of Knowledge. Touching the  salmon, Finn burned his finger, which he then  sucked to ease the pain. As a result he became  the possessor of all knowledge.  See   also:   danu; salmon of knowledge;  siegfried; tuatha de danann;   nibelungen -  lied ;   ring des nibelungen  Fintaan   (Fintan)   In Celtic mythology, a name  borne by many figures in early Ireland, both  secular and ecclesiastical, including 74 saints and  pseudo-saints. The best known is Fintan mac  Bóchra, the only Irishman to survive the biblical  flood. In one story he was 15 years old when the  flood came, but he survived another 5,500 years.  During this time he witnessed the exploits of  Cuchulain, the coming of Christianity, and the  entire history of the Western world.  See also:   bith and birren; cuchulain  Firebird, The   In Russian folklore, magical  bird with golden wings and crystal eyes. The  Firebird appears in many Russian folktales. One  of the best known is “Prince Ivan, the Firebird,  and the Gray Wolf.” One day the Firebird vis -  ited the king’s garden and plucked golden apples  from its magical tree. Ivan, the king’s son, was  told by his father to capture the Firebird when  it returned. After some nights of waiting Ivan  caught the bird, but it struggled and escaped.  All that remained was a feather from its tail “so  wonderful and bright that when carried into a  dark chamber it shone as if a great multitude of  tapers were lighting the place.” Not satisfied,  the king sent Ivan and his two brothers, Dmitri  and Vassily, to capture the Firebird.  Along the way Ivan met a gray wolf, which  aided him in all sorts of difficulties and helped  him   capture   the   Firebird.   As   part   of   Ivan’s  adventure’s the gray wolf made him fall in love  with a beautiful girl, Yelena. On their way home  Ivan and Yelena stopped to rest, and Ivan’s two  brothers attacked the couple. Ivan was killed  by Dmitri, and Yelena was taken back with the  brothers to the king’s palace. Ivan remained  dead for some 30 days. After the gray wolf, using  mertvaya voda   (dead water) and   shivaya voda   (liv -  ing water), restored him to life, Ivan went to  his father’s palace, claimed his due, and married  Yelena. Igor Stravinsky’s ballet   L’Oiseau de feu  (The Firebird) uses the well-known folktale,  adding to it the evil Kostchei. The Firebird is  frequently found on lacquered boxes ( shatulki ).  See also:   kostchei  Fire Dogs, The   A Korean etiological tale  answering the question of where the sun and  the moon eclipses come from. Once there was a  kingdom of darkness and in the darkness of this  place the people raised large fierce dogs called  fire dogs. The king was concerned about the  depressing state of his kingdom, and decided  to send his fiercest dog to go steal the sun and  bring it back. The dog traveled for many days  before coming close to the sun. When he tried  to bite into it in order to take it back to his king,  the heat was so great that he could not bite  down. He tried it again, but still it was too hot.  Upon his return, the king told him to go fetch  the moon, since it too offered some light. But  the moon was too cold, and when the dog bit  down on it, he could not hold on and had to let  go. The king was furious and sent his second  fiercest dog, and then his third, fourth, and fifth,  but each fire dog had to let go when it bit down  on the sun or the moon. All failed, but the king  did not give up hope, nor did any of the kings  that followed him. Now when there are eclipses,  it is said that the fire dogs from the kingdom of  darkness are trying to bite the sun or the moon.  See also:   etiological tale; moon; sun  fish   In excavations of ancient Egypt mummi -  fied fish have been found. A fish cult existed in  the city of Oxyrhynchus, where the mormyrus  3  4   Finn

=== 페이지 392 ===
fish was worshipped. It was believed to have  swallowed the phallus of Osiris, god of the dead,  when his evil brother Set hacked his body to  pieces. In Greek mythology the fish was sacred  to Aphrodite, goddess of love, and to Poseidon,  god of the sea. In the worship of Adonis a fish  was offered to the dead. In Roman mythology  the fish was sacred to Venus and to Neptune. In  Norse mythology the fish was sacred to Frigga  as goddess of love and fertility. In Sumero-  Semitic rites the fish was sacrificed to Ishtar,  Adapa, Ea, and Thammuz. In Hindu mythol -  ogy the fish is one of the mounts of Vishnu as  savior of the world when he came as a fish to  aid Manu. In Christianity the fish is a symbol  of Jesus Christ because the first letters of   Iesous  Christos Theou Huios Soter   (Jesus Christ, Son of  God, Savior) spell   ichthus,   the Greek word for  fish. In Buddhist belief a fish is symbolic of the  footprint of the Buddha, indicating freedom  from desires and attachments.  See   also:   adapa-ea; aphrodite; buddha,  the; frigga; ishtar; manu; neptune; osiris;  poseidon; set; venus; vishnu  Flamen Dialis   In Roman ritual, a priest serv -  ing Jupiter. A Flamen Dialis could be married  only once, could not be divorced, and had to  resign his office if his wife died. His person could  not touch a horse, flour, dogs, she-goats, beans,  or raw meat. He was forbidden to have any knots  on his clothing. His headdress was the apex, a  conical hat wrapped with a strip of white wool. If  the headdress fell off during some ritual, he had  to resign office. The Flamen Martialis (Mars)  and the Flamen Quirinalis (Quirinus) came from  the patrician class; other flamines (of a group of  12 to 15) came from the plebeian class and had  fewer restrictions on their persons.  See also:   mars  Flaming   Angel   In Jewish and Christian  mythology, angel often identified with Gabriel,  Uriel, or Madiel.  The Flaming, or, as he is sometimes called,  the Fiery, Angel is mentioned several times  in Jewish and Christian literature. His exact  identification is not known because the name  assigned to him varies from work to work or  is   omitted   entirely.   In   the   New   Testament  Book of Revelation (14:18) he is identified as  the angel “which had power over fire.” In the  Jewish- Christian work   Fourth Book of Maccabees  he appears as an adversary of the high priest  Aaron, who defeats him. From the two texts it  appears that the Flaming Angel is a demonic  creature.  The Russian composer Prokofiev used the  demonic   aspect   of   the   angel   for   his   opera  The   Flaming   Angel,   giving   the   creature   the  name Madiel. The opera is based on a work  ( Ognennyy Angel ) of the Russian poet, critic,  and novelist Valery Yakovlevich Bryusov. Set  in 16th-century Germany, the opera tells of a  young girl, Renata, who had seen in her child -  hood a vision of Madiel, the Flaming Angel,  and had fallen in love with him. The angel told  her that if she wished to love him as a human  being, she must meet him in his human form.  The opera deals with the girl’s quest to find  the angel incarnate among the men she meets.  Ultimately, however, she is destroyed. Proko -  fiev’s opera was not produced until 1955. Some  of its music was used by the composer in 1928  for the Third Symphony because he believed  the work would never be produced on stage.  A painting by Marc Chagall entitled   Descent  of the Red Angel   portrays the Flaming Angel  descending to earth amid a burst of color.  See also:   gabriel; uriel  Flidais   (deer)   In Celtic mythology, an Irish  woodland goddess, reputed to drive a chariot  drawn by deer, wife of Ailill, mother of Fand,  connected with hunting and protection of wild  animals. Flidais had a magic cow that could  produce milk for 300 men in one night, similar  to the seven kine of Mananaan. She is better  known for a lusty affair with Fergus, whose  sexual appetite only she could satisfy; otherwise  he needed seven women.  See also:   mananaan  Flidais   3  5

=== 페이지 393 ===
Flora   (flower, bloom)   In Roman mythology,  goddess of flowering and blossoming plants;  married to Zephyrus, who gave her perpetual  youth; equivalent to the Greek goddess Chloris.  Flora’s festival,   Floralia,   was held between 28  April and 1 May; it consisted of games and  indecent farces. Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 5) tells of the  goddess, and Robert Herrick’s poem “Corinna’s  Going a-Maying” also cites her.  See also:   ovid; zephyrus  Florian,   St.   (flourishing)   (fourth   century)  In Christian legend, one of the patron saints  of   Austria   and   Poland;   patron   of   brewers,  coopers, chimney sweeps, and soap boilers.  Invoked   against   bad   harvests,   battles,   fires,  floods, and storms. Feast, 4 May.  Florian was a Roman soldier who, because  he was a Christian, had a millstone tied around  his neck and was thrown into the river Enns,  near Lorch (about 230). One of his many mira -  cles was to put out a large city fire with a single  pitcher of   Flora   water. His image often appears  on fountains and pumps in Austria. In medieval  Christian art he is portrayed as a young man in  armor with a palm in his hand and a burning  torch under his feet. Sometimes an eagle is  shown near his dead body because legend says  such a bird protected his body.  fly   Any   of   numerous   two-winged   insects.  In Near Eastern mythology Beelzebub (Matt.  12:24), the Syrian god, was called Lord of the  Flies. In Greek mythology Zeus was the god who  warded off flies. In Jewish and Christian folklore,  the fly is often identified with the devil.  See also:   beelzebub; zeus  Flying   Dutchman,   The   Later medieval  legend of a ship’s captain condemned by God  to wander about until the Last Judgment.  According to one account, the Flying Dutch -  man was a captain who persisted in trying to  round the Cape of Good Hope in spite of the  violence of a storm and the protests of his pas -  sengers and crew. Eventually, a form appeared  (some accounts say it was God, others an angel  of God) on the deck to warn the captain. With -  out warning the captain fired on the form and  cursed it. As a punishment the Dutchman was  condemned to sail and to be the torment of sail -  ors until Judgment Day. Thus, he commands a  spectral ship that perpetually rounds the Cape of  Good Hope, luring other vessels to their doom.  Wagner’s opera   Der Fliegende Holländer   uses  his own version of the legend. Captain Frederik  Marryat’s novel   The Phantom Ship   (1839) is  about Philip Vanderedecken’s disastrous search  for his father, the captain of the ship.  Flora  3  6   Flora

=== 페이지 394 ===
Fo   In Chinese Buddhism, the name of the  Buddha, though it is applied to any person who  has attained Buddhahood.   Fo   is an abbreviated  Chinese transliteration of Buddha. In full, it is  Fo-t’o,   originally pronounced “but-da”; in Japan,  pronounced “butsu-da”; in Vietnam, “phat.”  See also:   buddha, the  folklorism   In   Germany,   the   neologism  Folklorismus   was introduced in an attempt to  differentiate between what is conceived to be  genuine and nongenuine folklore, about what  is and what is not folklore, but the term serves  functionally only among specialists. Folklorism  as a concept is known primarily in Europe and  the United States.  In 1950, Richard Dorson coined the word  fakelore,   which   would   be   at   the   center   of  the American conceptualization of folklorism.  Dorson used his new term to describe “spuri -  ous and synthetic writings under the claim  that they are genuine folklore,” consciously  contrived and often for financial gain. It was  in Germany, however, that   Folklorismus   would  lead   to   an   extended   scholarly   treatment   of  the term. Folk songs, for example, were being  sung outside their traditional contexts, often  in different strata of society, and there was  planned and staged imitation, sometimes the  re-creation of folklore, different from any iden -  tifiable, traditional context. Folk dances were  practiced and performed for audiences other  than those in the villages where they were tra -  ditional; some were even performed for televi -  sion. Innovations were being incorporated in  order to make the end product more commer -  cially marketable. Folk art, songs, costumes,  and performances all became a commodity,  especially for the growing tourist industry. The  debate and discussion of folklorism revealed in  time that two forces were functioning in mod -  ern society in regard to its folklore. In addition  to genuine interest in a community’s past, there  was a romantic and nostalgic need for an imag -  ined counterworld.  See also:   fakelore  Foma Berennikov   In Russian folklore, hero  who said he had killed 12 mighty heroes but in  actuality had killed 12 gadflies. His boasting  and cleverness enabled him to defeat various  other heroes. He finally married the daughter  of the king of Prussia.  Fomorians   (under, giant)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, the gods of the original population in  Ireland. They were regarded by the later Celtic  inhabitants as hurtful, evil gods, each having  only one eye, one arm, and one leg. They  were in opposition to the Tuatha de Danann,  the gods and the people, or descendants, of  the goddess Danu, who represented light and  goodness. They were said to be wantonly cruel,  cutting the noses off those who would not  pay them tribute. W. B. Yeats often spoke of  Fomorians. In   The Shadowy Waters   (1905) his  sorceress Orchid is a Fomorian.  See also:   balor; danu; tuatha de danann  Fool in the Birch Tree, The   A Russian  numbskull tale in which a foolish brother accom -  panies his two quick-witted brothers to the mar -  ket. The two eldest take cattle, sheep, and lambs,  but the foolish brother takes only a bony old ox.  Along the way the fool passes through a forest,  where he hears an old birch tree groaning in the  wind. He takes this to be an offer for his bony old  ox and asks for payment. When none is forth -  coming, and the tree creaks again, he interprets  that to mean he should return the next day for  his payment, which he does. Still no money, and  the tree continues to creak. Again, he thinks this  means that he will be paid the next day, but when  that does not happen, he returns with his axe and  chopped down the birch tree. At the roots of the  tree is a horde of gold that has been hidden there  by some robbers. He fills his sack and calls his  brothers, who also fill their sacks with gold. On  their way home, they meet a greedy deacon who  asks what is in the sacks. The older brothers says  it is merely mushrooms, but the fool shows him  the gold. When the deacon tries to take some  of the money, the smart brothers kill him and  Fool in the Birch Tree, The   3 

=== 페이지 395 ===
take him back to their house, where they bury  him in the cellar. Some days later, people began  to ask about the deacon, and the foolish brother  immediately tells them that he is buried in their  cellar. They dig it up but only find the corpse of  a goat, which the other brothers had put there  in place of the deacon. No one ever trusted the  fool again.  Fools, Feast of   In medieval Christianity,  a festival in honor of the ass on which Jesus  made his triumphant entry into Jerusalem on  Palm Sunday. Its origin was the “feast of the  subdeacons,” when members of the lower clergy  switched places with their superiors. The sub -  deacon chosen as “king for a day” would read the  Biblical verse “He has put down the mighty from  their seats and exalted them of low degree” (Luke  1: 52). The verse referred to God’s exaltation of  the Virgin Mary, but it was used by the lower  clergy to temporarily unseat their superiors.  The feast was held on 1 January, which is  also the day of the Feast of the Circumcision of  Jesus. The daily offices were chanted but in trav -  esty. A procession was formed, and all the town  indulged in a fools parade. An ass was part of the  feast, and instead of saying “Amen” at the end of  prayers the congregation would bray.  Part of the celebration consisted of “fools”  being “ordained” as priests and bishops. Dice  would be played on the altar, or food eaten, such  as puddings, cakes, or sausages. Shoes would be  burned as incense, men would often dress as  women, and masks would be worn. The Feast of  Fools died out by the 16th century under pres -  sure from Protestant reformers, who disliked  any kind of fun, and the Roman church no lon -  ger wanted to be identified with it. Scholars have  traced the festival to the Roman Festa Stultorum  and Saturnalia. The feast persists in popular 347  Fools, Feast of 1197 imagination through Vic -  tor Hugo’s   Notre Dame de Paris   and the film   The  Hunchback of Notre Dame.  formula   Traditional expression tends to be  formularized (not formalized). Formulas begin  and end tales and indicate what kind of story is  about to be told. “Once upon a time” clearly  indicates fantasy, a fairy tale, while “I heard”  suggests a legend, and “Have you heard the one  about .   .   .” is the opening formula for a joke.  These may be set or fixed phrases, patterns of  repetition, closing devices, or even extended  passages that often include stereotypes. There  are also nonverbal formulas, such as hand ges -  tures, designs, and stereotyped habits. In some  cases formulas can even distinguish between  folklore of the same genre but from different  countries. English and American ballads, for  example, have different formulas and on occa -  sion present the performer and the listener with  difficulty in understanding. In the famous ballad  known in America as the “Cowboy’s Lament,”  and in the United Kingdom as “The Bad Girl’s  Lament,” the American version of the refrain  includes the line: “So beat your drum lowly and  play you fife slowly.” Cowboys were certainly  never buried to drum beat and fife playing, but  since the ballad came with immigrants and was  varied to suit its new home, this formulaic line  survived and is still sung.  See also:   oral theory  formula tale   The primary characteristic of  formula tales is repetition, often incremental  and cumulative: threefold tasks, contests, or  trials for the hero or heroine. These individual  motifs are linked like a chain and represent  sequential movement through the narrative.  Closely   related   to   these   narratives   are   the  humorous and often bawdy cumulative songs  such as “The Woman who Swallowed a Fly” or  the “Twelve Days of Christmas.”  Fornax   (oven)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess who presided over bread baking. Her fes -  tivals, called Fornacalia, were first instituted by  Numa Pompilius, second king of Rome. Ovid’s  Fasti   (book 2) tells of the feast, which was held  17 February or earlier.  See also:   ovid  3    Fools, Feast of

=== 페이지 396 ===
Forseti   (Forsete)   (he who sits in the front  seat;   chairman)   In   Norse   mythology,   god  of justice and conciliation; son of Baldur and  Nanna, whose home was Glitnier. The ken -  ning for Baldur is “Forseti’s father.” According  to the   Prose Edda,   “all disputants at law who  bring their cases before him go away perfectly  reconciled.” The term   forseti   is still in use today  as the title for the president of Iceland.  See also:   baldur; kenning; nanna;   prose  edda  Fortuna   (fortune)   In   Roman   mythology,   god -  dess of fortune, chance, and luck; identified with  the Greek goddess Tyche. Originally, Fortuna  was an ancient Italian goddess of increase and  fertility, but she became goddess of fortune, thus  the wheel of fortune. She was invoked by young  Roman married women to grant fertility or a  safe delivery. Her feast was 11 June according  to Ovid’s   Fasti   (6.569). The goddess continued  to play a prominent role during the Christian  Middle Ages, appearing in the 13th-century col -  lection of songs in Latin, German, and French  known as   Carmina burana.   Some of the texts  were set by Carl Orff. Fortuna was also known  as Fors or Fors Fortuna.  See also:   ovid  Fortunatus   In medieval legend, a hero who  possesses a wishing cap. He is on the brink  of starvation when Dame Fortune offers to  bestow either wisdom, strength, riches, health,  beauty, or long life. He chooses riches. She  grants his wish, but the gift proves his ruin and  that of his sons because of their greed.  Four   Horsemen   of   the   Apocalypse   In  the Bible, N. T., four figures in the Book of  Revelation symbolizing the evils that will come  to pass at the end of the world. The figure who  represents conquest rides a white horse, war rides  a red horse, famine a black horse, and pestilence  a pale horse. The best known representation is in  a woodcut by the German artist Albrecht Dürer  (1471–1528), with the angels looking down from  above while three of the horsemen trample men  and women and Death treads upon a bishop fall -  ing into the gaping jaws of the Dragon of Hell.  See also:   bible (revelation)  Fountain of Youth, The   A Korean version  of the wish by the old for rejuvenation, which  is accomplished by drinking from a fountain.  A childless couple survives on the old man’s  wood cutting. One day in the forest he follows  the singing of birds deeper and deeper into the  forest, where he finds a cooling spring of water.  When he drinks from the spring, he falls into a  deep and very refreshing sleep. Upon returning  home, his wife realizes that he looks the way he  Fountain of Youth, The   3   Fortuna

=== 페이지 397 ===
did when she married him more than 40 years  before. They go together into the forest, where  she also drinks the spring water, falls asleep,  and becomes young again. Back at the cottage a  neighbor sees them and becomes jealous of their  transformation. He demands that the couple  tells him how it came about that they are once  again young. Thereupon he hurries into the  mountains and is gone for more than two days.  The young man and woman become worried  and go to search for him. The spring is nearly  empty, but they find a small baby lying on the  clothes of the old man. The selfish neighbor has  drunk too much of the spring water and become  a small baby. The childless couple take the baby  home and raise him as their own.  See also:   motif  Four or Five Ages   In Central American  mythology, a creation myth that describes the  world as the fourth or fifth created in suc -  cession. All of the previous worlds failed or  were destroyed, each in its own turn. In some  versions of the story, the present world is also  doomed. In more contemporary versions, bib -  lical figures such as Christ, God, Mary, and the  Devil participate in the creation and destruc -  tion of the various ages.  Fourteen Holy Helpers, The   In Christian  legend, a group of saints honored during the  Middle Ages in Germany, Bohemia, Moravia,  Hungary, Italy, and France. Feast, 8 August.  The names of the 14 Holy Helpers vary, but  the most common are the following:  Achatius   (feast, 22 June).  Barbara   (feast,   4   December).   Invoked  against lightning, fire, explosion, sudden and  unprepared death; patron of architects, build -  ers, and fireworks makers.  Blaise   (feast, 3 February). Invoked against  throat   infections;   patron   of   physicians,   wax  chandlers, and wool combers.  Catherine of Alexandria   (feast, 25 Novem -  ber). Invoked by philosophers, saddlers, spin -  sters, students, and rope makers.  Christopher   (feast, 25 July). Invoked against  storms and for a safe journey; patron of naviga -  tors, sailors, and travelers.  Cyriacus   (feast, 8 August). Invoked against  demonic possession.  Denis   (feast, 9 October). Invoked against  frenzy, headache, rabies, and strife.  Erasmus   (feast,   2   June).   Invoked   against  birth pangs, colic, cattle pest, and danger at sea;  patron of sailors.  Eustace   (feast,   20   September).   Patron   of  huntsmen.  George   (feast, 23 April). Patron of calvary -  men, chivalry, and soldiers.  Giles   (feast, 1 September). Invoked against  epilepsy, insanity, and sterility.  Margaret   (feast, 20 July). Invoked in child -  birth and against barrenness or lack of milk;  patron of women (virgins), nurses, and peas -  ants.  Pantaleon   (feast, 27 July). Invoked against  phthisis.  Vitus   (feast, 15 June). Invoked against epi -  lepsy and St. Vitus dance. Other saints some -  times included in the list are Dorothy (feast, 6  February), Leonard of Noblac (feast, 6 Novem -  ber), Oswald (feast, 5 August), and Nicholas  (feast, 6 December).  The Feast of the Fourteen Holy Helpers  is still observed in some parts of Germany. A  church in Baltimore, Maryland, is dedicated to  the group.  See also:   barbara, st.; blaise, st.; catherine  of alexandria, st.; christopher, st.; denis, st.;  dorothy, st.; eustace, st.; george, st.; giles,  st.; leonard, st.; margaret, st.; oswald, st.;  nicholas, st.; vitus, st.  fox   A small wild animal of the dog family;  in European mythologies often a symbol of  cunning; in Oriental mythologies women often  turn into foxes and are beneficent creatures.  Often   equated   with   the   devil   in   Christian  symbolism, the fox is noted for his malicious -  ness, pious fraudulence, revengefulness, and  thievery. In numerous Aesop fables and fables  3  0   Four or Five Ages

=== 페이지 398 ===
based on Aesop, the fox is presented as an evil,  clever being, out to destroy. In Dante’s   Inferno,  the spirit of Guido de Montefeltro, a famous  warrior, says that his deeds were not those of  a lion but of a fox. He used crafty, secretive  ways to achieve his ends. Machiavelli’s   The  Prince   advises rulers to imitate two animals:  the lion and the fox. The strength of the lion,  Machiavelli says, is not sufficient for a ruler; he  must also have the deceit of a fox.  Oriental mythologies often take a different  approach. Japanese and Chinese tales abound  with stories of fox transformations—women  turned into foxes or foxes into women. In  Oriental tales the appearance of a dog always  forces the fox maiden into revealing her true  nature. In Japanese folklore a fox maiden can  be recognized by a spurt of flame flickering  over her human head. The fox also has a strong  sexual significance in Chinese and Japanese  art and literature. The final panel of a four-  panel Japanese screen portrays some merchants  engaged in various sexual activities with differ -  ent women. In the next panel the women have  turned into vixens and the men into peasants.  Janácek’s opera   The Cunning Little Vixen   deals  with a Czech legend of a woman turned into a  fox. There are numerous motifs associated with  the fox in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See   also:   aesopic fables; fox and the  crow, the; fox and the grapes, the; fox and  the mosquitoes, the; reynard the fox  Fox   and   the   Crow,   The   Aesopic fable,  probably of Indian origin because some of the  Jatakas, or Birth-Stories of the Former Lives of the  Buddha,   have the same moral.  A crow who had stolen a piece of cheese was  flying toward the top of a tall tree, where he  hoped to enjoy his prize, when a fox spied him.  “If I plan this right,” said the fox to himself, “I  shall have cheese for supper.”  So, as he sat under the tree, he began to  speak in his politest tones: “Good day, Mis -  tress Crow, how well you are looking today!  How glossy your wings, and your breast is  the breast of an eagle. And your claws—I beg  pardon—your talons are as are strong as steel.  I have not heard your voice, but I am certain  that it must surpass that of any other bird just  as your beauty does.”  The vain crow was pleased by all this flat -  tery. She believed every word of it and waggled  her tail and flapped her wings to show her plea -  sure. She liked especially what friend fox said  about her voice, for she had sometimes been  told that her caw was a bit rusty. So, chuckling  to think how she was going to surprise the fox  with her most beautiful caw, she opened her  mouth wide.  Down dropped the piece of cheese! The  wily   fox   snatched   it   before   it   touched   the  ground, and as he walked away, licking his  chops, he offered these words of advice to the  Fox   (Konrad Gesner)  Fox and the Crow, The   3   Aesop’s The Fox and the Crow

=== 페이지 399 ===
silly crow: “The next time someone praises  your beauty be sure to hold your tongue.”  Moral:   Flatterers are not to be trusted.  There   is   an   English   proverb,   “The   fox  praises the meat out of the crow’s mouth.” The  fable is pictured on the Bayeux tapestry, and  Thackeray makes use of it in his potpourri of  fables in the Prologue to   The Newcomers.   In De  Gubernatis’   Zoological Mythology,   he explains it:  “The fox (the spring aurora) takes the cheese  (the moon) from the crow (the winter night)  by making it sing!” This explanation, however,  is as fanciful as the fable itself and has been  discredited by modern scholars.  See also:   aesopic fables;   jataka  Fox and the Grapes, The   Aesopic fable  found in numerous European collections such  as Phaedrus, Babrius, and La Fontaine.  Mister Fox was just about famished, and  thirsty too, when he stole into a vineyard where  the sun-ripened grapes were hanging on a trellis  too high for him to reach. He took a run and a  jump, snapping at the nearest bunch, but missed.  Again and again he jumped, only to miss the lus -  cious prize. At last, worn out with his efforts, he  retreated, muttering: “Well, I never really wanted  those grapes anyway. I am sure they are sour.”  Moral:   Any fool can despise what he cannot get.  In La Fontaine’s version the fox is some -  thing of an aristocrat. He says the grapes were  only “fit for peasants.” The expression “sour  grapes,” used when someone belittles some -  thing he or she once wanted but was unable  to obtain, is derived from this fable. A modern  retelling of the fable, called   The Mookse and the  Gripes,   is found in Joyce’s   Finnegans Wake.  See   also:   aesopic fables; la fontaine,  jean de  Fox and the Mosquitoes, The   Aesopic  fable found in various European collections.  A fox, after crossing a river, got its tail  entangled in a bush and could not move. A  number of mosquitoes, seeing its plight, settled  on it and enjoyed a good meal undisturbed by  its tail. A hedgehog strolling by took pity on  the fox and went up to him. “You are in a bad  way, neighbor,” said the hedgehog. “Shall I  relieve you by driving off those mosquitoes that  are sucking your blood?”  “Thank you, Master Hedgehog,” said the  fox, “but I would rather not.”  “Why, how is that?” asked the hedgehog.  “Well, you see,” the fox answered, “these  mosquitoes have had their fill; if you drive  these away, others will come with fresh appetite  and bleed me to death.”  Moral:   Be satisfied with what you have, some -  thing new may be worse.  Aristotle credits Aesop with the authorship  of this fable, and Joseph Jacobs in his edition of  The Fables of Aesop   says it is “the only fable which  can be traced with any plausibility to Aesop.” Of  course, his argument assumes that Aesop was  a real person. Roman emperors, Jacobs writes,  had a special liking for this fable since they used  it to console provincial officials when they were  mistreated by proconsuls or procurators.  See also:   aesopic fables; aristotle  frame tale   A tale that holds several other tales  together. Chaucer’s   Canterbury Tales   were told as  entertainment while pilgrims were on their way  to the tomb of Thomas à Becket. In   The Thousand  and One Nights   Princess Shahrazad marries a king  who has the habit of each day killing his bride to Aesop’s “The Fox and the Grapes”  3  2   Fox and the Grapes, The

=== 페이지 400 ===
marry another. The princess tells the king a  story on their wedding night, always stopping  at a most interesting point, whereupon the king  decides each time to postpone the execution until  he has heard the ending of the story. By telling a  new tale every night, she is able to forestall her  death. The frame is the story of Shahrazad; the  individual tales are told within this frame.  See   also:   chaucer;   thousand   and   one  nights, the  Francesca   da   Rimini   (13th   century)   In  medieval history and legend, daughter of Guido  da Polenta, lord of Ravenna. She was married  to Malatesta, lord of Rimini, but her love for  his younger brother, Paolo, was discovered by  her husband, and the lovers were murdered  by Malatesta in about 1289. In Dante’s   The  Divine Comedy   (Inferno, canto 5) she appears  along with Paolo in Circle 2 of hell, where sins  concerned with carnal love are punished. In  Dante’s work Francesca tells her own sad tale.  Dante’s poem inspired Tchaikovsky’s fantasy for  orchestra   Francesca da Rimini,   Rachmaninoff’s  opera   Francesca da Rimini,   and Zandonai’s opera  Francesca da Rimini.  Francesca Romana, St.   (a Frank)   (1384–  1440)   In Christian legend, patron saint of  Roman housewives. Feast, 9 March.  Francesca Romana was married to a rich  nobleman, Lorenzo Ponziano, but spent most  of   her   time   in   prayer.   After   his   death   she  devoted what time was left to more prayer and  works of charity. Once when she was praying  she was called away four times at the same  verse. The fifth time she found the verse writ -  ten in golden light on the page of her prayer  book by her guardian angel. She is credited  with   raising   a   dead   child   to   life,   stopping  an epidemic by her prayers, and multiplying  bread to feed the poor. In medieval Christian  art she is often portrayed with her deacon  (her guardian angel) by her side and holding a  book. Sometimes she is portrayed receiving the  Christ Child from the Virgin Mary.  Francis   of   Assisi,   St.   (the   Frenchman)  (1181?–1226)   Patron saint of animals, found -  er of Fratre Minori, known as the Franciscans,  one of the three mendicant orders of Friars.  Feast, 4 October. The order of Franciscan nuns  was founded in 1212 by St. Clare.  Francis’s father, Pietro Bernardone, was a  rich merchant. Originally, Francis was named  Giovanni,   but   he   was   called   Francisco   (the  Frenchman) after his father had him trained in  the French language in preparation for a busi -  ness career. In his early years Francis was known  for his passionate nature as well as for his love of  all of the pleasures of life. In a quarrel between  the people of Assisi and those of Perugia, Fran -  cis was taken prisoner and held for a year in the  fortress of Perugia. After his release he was ill  for many months. During this illness he spent  time reflecting on the wasteful life he had led.  Soon after his recovery, he met a beggar, whom  he recognized as a man who had formerly been  rich. Francis exchanged garments with the poor  man, giving his rich cloak to the beggar and  putting on the man’s tattered garments. That  night, in a vision, Francis saw himself in a beau -  tiful apartment filled with all kinds of arms, rich  jewels, and handsome garments—all of them  marked with the sign of the cross. In the midst  of the riches stood Jesus, who said to Francis:  “These are the riches reserved for my servants  and the weapons wherewith I arm those who  fight for my cause.” Francis took this to mean  that he should become a soldier. After the vision  Francis went to pray in the half-ruined church  of San Damiano. As he knelt to pray a voice  said to him, “Francis, repair my church, which  falleth to ruin.”  Taking the command literally, Francis sold  some merchandise and gave the money to the  priests of San Damiano to repair the church.  His father was so angry that Francis hid in a  cave for some days to escape his wrath. When  Francis returned to the city, he was so tired and  ragged that he was not recognized. Believing  him insane, Francis’s father had him confined,  but his mother set him free, begging him at  Francis of Assisi, St.   3  3

=== 페이지 401 ===
3  4   Francis of Assisi, St.  St. Francis of Assisi Receiving the Stigmata   (Cherubino Alberti)

=== 페이지 402 ===
the same time to obey his father and to stop  his strange conduct. His father took him to the  bishop, and when they were in the presence of  the bishop, Francis took off his fine clothes and  threw them at his father, saying, “Henceforth I  recognize no father but Him who is in heaven.”  The bishop took a poor man’s cloak and covered  Francis’s naked body. Francis was at that time 25  years of age. He then began taking care of lep -  ers; he begged, wandered about the mountains,  and later lived in a cell near the chapel of Santa  Maria degli Angeli. Soon he was joined by dis -  ciples, who also wished to follow his simple life.  Numerous legends grew about his holy life.  One, contained in   Fioretti di San Francisco   (The  Little Flowers of St. Francis) tells of a journey  to Siena during which he met “three maidens  in poor raiment, and exactly resembling each  other   in   age   and   appearance,   who   saluted  him with the words, ‘Welcome, Lady Pov -  erty!’ and suddenly disappeared. The brethren  not irrationally concluded that this apparition  imported some mystery pertaining to St. Fran -  cis, and that by the three poor maidens were  signified Chastity, Obedience, and Poverty, the  beauty and sum of evangelical perfection; all of  which shone with equal and consummate luster  in the man of God, though he made his chief  glory the privilege of Poverty.”  In time Francis went to Rome to obtain  confirmation of his religious order. At first Pope  Innocent III thought Francis was insane, but in  a dream the pope saw the Church tottering and  kept from falling only by the support of Francis.  He immediately sent for Francis and approved  his right to preach. Francis’s following grew,  and missionaries were sent to Muslim countries.  Francis even went himself, reaching Damietta  (Egypt), where he was taken before the sultan.  The sultan would not let Francis preach but also  would not let him be martyred, and he was sent  back to Italy. A few years later Pope Honorius  confirmed his order. Francis resigned as its head  and went to live in a cave on Mount Alverna.  There he experienced many visions, the most  famous being the one in which he received the  stigmata, the wounds of Jesus, earning him the  title of “the Seraphic.” Following is the descrip -  tion from   The Little Flowers of St. Francis:  After having fasted for fifty days in his  solitary cell on Mt. Alverna, and passed  the time in all the fervor of prayer and  ecstatic contemplation, transported almost  to heaven by the ardor of his desires; then  he beheld as it were a seraph with six shin -  ing wings, bearing down upon him from  above, and between his wings was the form  of a man crucified. By this he understood  to be figured a heavenly and immortal  intelligence, subject to death and humilia -  tion. And it was manifested to him that he  was to be transformed into a resemblance  to Christ, not by the martyrdom of the  flesh, but by the might and fire of Divine  love. When the vision had disappeared and  he had recovered a little from its effect, it  was seen that in his hands, his feet, and  side he carried the wounds of our Savior.  Various legends are associated with Francis’s  love of animals. He preached to the birds about  God’s love. The most famous legend is that of  the Wolf of Gubbio, who had been ravaging the  countryside until Francis spoke to him. He told  the wolf that food would be provided by the  town, provided that he no longer attacked any  of its inhabitants. The wolf obeyed the saint and  became a friend of the people. Francis is known  as the author of some poetry, among which the  Canticle of the Sun   is best known. His prayer,  “Lord make me an instrument of your peace,”  has now been included in the American Book of  Common Prayer of the Episcopal church.  Giotto’s frescoes are the best known por -  trayals of the saint. Other artists who have  painted   Francis   are   El   Greco,   Dürer,   and  Rubens. Paul Hindemith used episodes from  the saint’s life for a ballet. In literature, Lau -  rence Houseman’s short plays,   Little Plays of St.  Francis   (1922) deal with the saint.  See also:   clare, st.  Francis of Assisi, St.   3  5

=== 페이지 403 ===
3  6   Introduction  St. Francis   (Albrecht Dürer)

=== 페이지 404 ===
Francis   Xavier,   St.   (a   Frank)   (1506–1610)  In Christian legend, missionary. Born of a noble  family at his father’s castle in the Pyrenees,  Francis went to Paris to study theology and there  became a friend and associate of St. Ignatius  Loyola, the founder of the Jesuits. He joined the  community and was sent as a missionary to Goa  in India. He spent the rest of his life in the East  and died while on a journey to China.  There are numerous legends of the saint  recounted by Cardinal de Monte in his speech  before Pope Gregory IX on the canonization  of Francis Xavier. One is the tale of the crab  that brought Francis Xavier his crucifix. As  Francis was sailing from Ambionum, a city  of the Molucca Islands, to Baranula the ship  was overtaken by a storm, which threatened  to wreck the vessel. Xavier took his crucifix  from his neck and held it in the raging sea in  order to still the billows. But suddenly the ves -  sel lurched, and the crucifix dropped into the  water. The ship arrived safely the next day at  Baranula. When Xavier went ashore, a great  crab leaped out of the sea carrying the crucifix  “devoutly, and in an upright direction between  its fins.” The crab made its way to Francis,  delivered the crucifix, and returned to the sea.  The   cardinal   also   told   the   canonization  commission how Francis Xavier had the gift  of tongues. As soon as Francis came into any  of the strange countries where he preached, he  spoke the language of the people instinctively,  without any accent.  When Xavier died, his body was laid in a  coffin filled with pure lime to consume the  flesh. Four months afterward, when the coffin  was opened, it was found that the grave clothes  were entirely intact and his flesh was as fresh  as if the body had just died. No stench came  from the body, but instead a sweet perfume.  The body was put back into the coffin and  taken to Malacca, which at the time was suf -  fering from a plague. The moment the coffin  arrived the plague ceased. A new coffin was  made, but it was too small, and the body had  to be forced into it, causing blood to spill out  and stain the shroud. The coffin was buried in  the churchyard of Our Blessed Lady and was  opened again in nine months. Again, the body  was fresh and the blood moist on the shroud.  The body was now laid in a sumptuous coffin  and carried to the Indies. It was received at  Goa with great pomp, the viceroy himself tak -  ing part in the ceremony. No ointment, spices,  or balm had been used, but his body “had a  ravishing fragrance” and was laid on the right  side of the high altar. Today, however, the body  is nearly completely decayed.  Francis Xavier is often shown as a young  bearded Jesuit with torch, flame, cross, and  lily. Sometimes he is shown with St. Ignatius  Loyola holding a cross.  See also:   ignatius loyola, st.  Frankie and Johnny   American folk ballad,  dating to the 19th century and first printed in  1912. It tells how Johnny, a St. Louis black  procurer, was killed by his mistress, Frankie, a  prostitute, when he went with another woman.  There   are   more   than   300   variants   of   the  verses   and   music.   Plays   by   Mae   West   and  John Huston are based on the ballad, as well  as the ballet   Frankie and Johnny,   with music  by Jerome Moross. Hollywood’s   Frankie and  Johnny   (1966) uses the ballad for the tale of a  Mississippi riverboat’s gambling singer and his  mistress, starring Elvis Presley.  See also:   variant  Franklin, Benjamin   (1706–1790)   In U.S.  history and folklore, statesman, printer, scien -  tist, and writer, the American self-made man.  He was noted in folklore for his great love of  women, especially in old age. According to  one legend, when he was in France, numer -  ous ladies swarmed around the old man, each  asking him if he loved her the most. Franklin’s  reply was, “Yes, when you are closest to me—  because of the force of attraction.” Aside from  his   Autobiography,   Franklin’s most famous work  was   Poor Richard’s Almanack,   issued from 1732  to 1757. Filled with maxims, some by Franklin  Franklin, Benjamin   3 

=== 페이지 405 ===
but most based on folk sayings and world lit -  erature, the work was extremely popular with  the public. Among some of its most famous  maxims are Make haste slowly; God helps them  that help themselves; Early to bed and early to  rise / Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise;  Nothing but money is sweeter than honey;  Approve not of him who commends all you say.  Franklin was known during his lifetime as Ben  the Magician because of his electrical experi -  ments   with   the   lightning   rod.   The   famous  legend of the kite is dim and mystifying in  fact. Franklin himself did not write the story of  this most dramatic of his experiments. All that  we know about what happened on that day, of  no known date, is found in Joseph Priestley’s  account, published 15 years later, but it was  read in manuscript by Franklin, who evidently  gave Priestley the familiar details. He invented  the Franklin stove and bifocal spectacles.  Fraus   (deceit)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess   of   treachery,   daughter   of   Orcus   (Dis,  Hades, Pluto) and Night (Nox).  See also:   hades; nox; orcus; pluto  Fravashis   In Persian mythology, spiritual  primeval   images   of   men,   preexistent   souls.  They watch over procreation, do battle, are  invoked against danger, and guard the seed of  the prophet Zarathustra, which will later be  planted in future saviors: Hushedar, Hushedar-  man, and Soshyant.  The Zend   Avesta ,   which is the Avesta with  a commentary, writes of the Fravashis, “which  have existed from of old” and are found in  houses, villages, communities, and provinces,  that they “hold the heaven in its place apart,  and the water, land and cattle, which hold the  children in the wombs safely enclosed apart so  they do not miscarry.”  See   also:   avesta; hushedar; hushedar-  man; soshyant; zarathustra  Freki and Geri   (greedy and ravenous)   In  Norse mythology, two wolves who sit by Odin,  chief of the gods, when he feasts. Odin gives  them all of the food set before him and drinks  only wine, since food and wine are the same to  the god. They appear in the   Poetic Edda   and the  Prose Edda.  See also:   odin;   poetic edda; prose edda  Frenchy   Aucoin   In American folklore, a  lumberman who turned into a Canada jay after  his death, only to be stripped of his feathers  and thrown out into the cold night to return to  hell. Harry N. Lundmark picks up the theme  in 2001 in   The Curse of the Gorby   where a small  gray, gulllike bird, also known as the Moosebird  or Gorby, is waiting to steal the soul of a dying  woodsman. This bird must never be harmed,  under any circumstance, for the culprit would  suffer a fate of unutterable horror.  Frey   (lord, master)   In Norse mythology one  of the Vanir; god of fertility, peace, and wealth;  son of Njord and patron god of Sweden and  Iceland.   Frey’s   wife   was   Gerda,   daughter   of  mountain giants Gymir and his wife Aurboda.  When Frey first saw Gerda he immediately fell  in love with her and sent his messenger Skirnir  to her, telling him, “Go, and ask her hand for  3    Fraus  Frey astride his golden boar, Gullinbursti

=== 페이지 406 ===
me, and bring her to me whether her father be  willing or not, and I will amply reward you.”  Skirnir was willing to undertake the mission,  provided he was given Frey’s wonderful sword,  which Frey then gave him. Eventually he returns  with Gerda’s promise that within nine nights she  would come to a place called Barey and there  marry Frey.  The   Prose Edda   describes Frey as “one of  the most celebrated of the gods. He presided  over rain and sunshine, and all the fruits of the  earth, and should be invoked in order to obtain  good harvests and also peace. He moreover  dispenses wealth among men.” Among Frey’s  treasures were Blodighofi (bloody-hoof), his  magical horse; Gullinbursti (gold-bristled), a  golden boar or a chariot drawn by a boar; and  Skidbladnir   (wooden-bladed),   a   magic   ship  that could be folded up like a tent. Frey’s boar  reflects the cult of the boar associated with the  god. On the eve of the Yule festival a sacrifice  called   sónargöltr   (atonement boar) was offered  to make Frey favorable to the New Year. The  ancient pagan cult still survives in Sweden in  the cakes baked at Yule (now Christmas) in  the form of a boar. Frey was sometimes called  Ingvi-Frey or Ingunar-Frey (Frey of Ingun).  Edward Burne-Jones’s 19th-century painting of  Frey portrays him seated with an olive branch  and a boar at his feet.  See also:   gerda; njord; skirnir; vanir; yule  Freyja   (Frea, Frija, Freya, Foige) (the lady)   In  Norse mythology, the only named Vanir god -  dess; goddess of youth, beauty, and sexual love;  sister of the god Frey; married to Odur. Friday  was sacred to the goddess and named after her.  In northern mythology Freyja and Frigga are  often confused for the same deity. Freyja, in  Freyja   3   Frey  Freyja visited the dwarfs to obtain the  Brisingamen, her golden necklace

=== 페이지 407 ===
some accounts, was married to Odur, and their  daughter   was   called   Hnossa.   But   Odur   left  Freyja in order to travel around the world. Since  that time Freyja continually weeps, and her tears  are drops of gold. Freyja, according to the   Prose  Edda,   rides into battlefields asserting “her right  to one-half of the slain, the other half belong -  ing to Odin.” Her most famous possession is  her necklace, Brising (necklace of the dwarfs?),  given her by the dwarfs. One day while Freyja  was in the underground kingdom of the dwarfs,  she saw them fashion a necklace. She asked the  dwarfs to give it to her. They refused at first, but  eventually gave it to the goddess on condition  she have sexual intercourse with them. Brising  was later worn by the god Thor when he imper -  sonated the goddess in order to trick the giants.  The necklace was once stolen by the evil god  Loki but recovered by Heimdall. Freyja, accord -  ing to the   Prose Edda,   lends a very favorable ear  to those who sue to her for assistance: “She is  very fond of love ditties, and all lovers would do  well to invoke her.”  Often in the myths Freyja is accused of  having sexual intercourse with many men and  gods. The goddess is called a “she goat” that  leaps after goats. The giantess Hyndla taunts  the goddess by saying that “many have stolen  under thy girdle.” Freyja’s home is in Folkvang  (field of folks), in which her hall, Sessrumnir  (love, which supports the idea of the Vanir as  a fertility cult), is located. Each day she leaves  her mansion in a chariot drawn by two cats.  Freyja is also called Mardoll (shining over the  sea), Horn, Gefn, Syr, and Vanadjs.  See also:   aesir-vanir war; dvalin; frey;  frigga; hnossa; ragnarok; seid; thor; vanir  Frigga   (Frigg,   Frija,   Fri)   (lady,   mistress,  bearer?)   In Norse mythology, an Aesir god -  dess,   wife   of   Odin,   mother   of   Baldur.   She  presides over marriage. In the   Prose Edda   she is  in the front rank of the goddesses. Her home  was Fensalir (sea hall), and she dressed in the  plumage of falcons and hawks. Frigga has 11  maidservants: Fulla, Hlin, Gna, Lofn, Vjofn,  Syn, Gefjon, Snotra, Eira, Vara, and Vor, who  help the goddess preside over marriage and  justice. She is called upon in the ninth-century  German “Merseburg Charms” to help cure  a broken leg on Baldur’s horse. She appears  in Richard Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen  as Fricka. Friday is dedicated to the goddess  and is named for her. Frigg is part of many  Scandinavian place names. Sometimes Frigga is  confused with Freya in Germanic mythology.  See also:   aesir; baldur; merseburg charms;  odin;   ring des nibelungen, der  Frithjof’s Saga   Thirteenth-century Icelandic  saga believed to have originated in the eighth  century.   Frithjof   (peace   maker)   was   the   son  of Thane Thorsten, the friend of King Bele  of Norway. He played with the little princess  Ingebjorg and was sent with her to learn wis -  dom from the sage Hilding. When King Bele  and Thorsten died, Princes Helgi and Halfdon  assumed the throne. Frithjof inherited from his  father a wonder- working sword, Angurvadel,  with strange runes that dulled in peace and  flamed in war; the arm ring of Wayland the  Smith; and   Ellide,   the dragon ship. After the  death feast of his father, Frithjof went to the  Frigga, attended by a handmaiden  3  0   Frigga

=== 페이지 408 ===
land of Helgi and Halfdon to ask for the hand of  Ingebjorg, their sister, in marriage. Helgi sneered  at the idea. Another suitor, King Ring, an old  widower, was also rejected and returned to make  war on Helgi and Halfdon. Ingebjorg was then  locked up in Baldur’s temple. Frithjof entered the  sacred temple, having no fear that he profaned it.  He offered to help Ingebjorg’s brothers, but they  refused his aid. Defaming Baldur’s temple was a  crime, and on pain of perpetual exile Frithjof was  forced to wrest from Yarl Angantyr the tribute  due to the sons of King Bele.  Unable to persuade Ingebjorg to go with  him, he set sail for an island ruled over by Yarl  Angantyr. His dragon ship made a safe voyage,  even though Helgi caused a storm to be raised  by the sea-witches Heyd and Ham. Before reach -  ing the castle he overcame the Viking Atli but  spared his life because of Atli’s fearlessness; the  two became friends. Frithjof was welcomed by  Yarl Angantyr, his father’s friend, who had given  presents, not tribute, to King Bele and had been  rewarded with a purse of gold. Remaining with  Yarl Angantyr until spring, Frithjof then sailed  for seven days to Framnas, only to find that it had  been burned and was in ruins. He learned from  Hilding that King Ring had married Ingebjorg.  Angry at the turn of events, Frithjof went  to the temple of Baldur during a midsummer  feast and fought with Helgi in single combat.  When he noticed that Ingebjorg’s armlet was  on the image of the god Baldur, he pulled it off,  causing the god’s statue to fall into the fire. The  temple caught fire, and the surrounding area  was set ablaze. Frithjof fled, chased by Helgi  with 10 warships. Bjorn, however, had bored  holes in the ships the previous night, and all  aboard were drowned except for Helgi.  Frithjof became a pirate for three years. On  his return he dressed as a beggar and appeared  at the Yuletide feast of King Ring. When a sol -  dier made fun of Frithjof, he caught him and  turned him head over heels. King Ring asked  the beggar to take off his disguise but did not  seem to recognize Frithjof, though Ingebjorg  did. Twice Frithjof had his enemy’s life in his  hands. But the old king had recognized him  from the first. Finally, King Ring plunged a  sword into his own chest. Before Frithjof mar -  ried Ingebjorg, he went to seek forgiveness  from the god Baldur. He made a temple to the  god, and the wedding took place.  This medieval saga inspired the 19th-century  narrative poem   Frithiof-Saga   or   Lay of Frithiof   by  Esaias Tegnir, bishop of Vaxjo, Sweden. The  work was known to Henry Wadsworth Longfel -  low, who translated the bishop’s narrative poem,  “The Children of the Lord’s Supper.”  See also:   baldur; wayland the smith  Frode   In Danish legend, a king who had a  magic millstone that ground out gold for him.  When he demanded more and more gold, the  two giant maidens Frenja and Menja ground  out salt. This killed Frode and brought famine  to the land.  frog   A tailless amphibian having long hind  legs used for jumping. In Egyptian mythology  the frog goddess was Heket, and the four male  primeval gods of the Ogdoad, which formed a  group of eight deities who created the world,  were portrayed as frog-headed. In Greek and  Roman mythology the frog was associated with  Aphrodite and Venus, as goddesses of sex and  love.  In Christianity the frog is often a symbol of  evil. But often the frog and toad are confused in  Christian symbolism. Shakespeare’s King Rich -  ard III is called “this poisonous hunchback’d  toad” (1.3), and in Milton’s   Paradise Lost   Satan  takes the form of a toad to squat at the ear of  the sleeping Eve and distill poison into her  blood. This recalls the European belief that  toads are venomous creatures whose blood, if  drunk, would kill instantly. The antidote for  toad poison is a jewel found in the toad’s head,  its existence being a common folk belief.  Some Freudians have viewed the frog as sym -  bolic of the penis. At first the penis is feared by a  woman, they contend, but once she experiences  sexual contact and pleasure, she realizes that the  frog   3 

=== 페이지 409 ===
The Frog Prince  3  2   frog

=== 페이지 410 ===
object of her fear is actually something desirable.  This motif is supported in the Grimm folktale  The Frog Prince. The theory is interesting, but  in many variants of the tale the frog turns into  a woman. Frenchmen have long been referred  to as Frogs because of their ancient heraldic  emblem, which was three frogs or toads.  See also:   frog and the ox, the; grimm  brothers  Frog and the Ox, The   Aesopic fable found  in various European collections.  Some frogs had just had a harrowing expe -  rience down at the swampy meadow, and they  came hopping home to report their adventure.  “Oh, Father,” said one of the little frogs,  all out of breath, “we have just seen the most  terrible monster in all the world. It was enor -  mous, with horns on its head and a long tail  and hooves—.”  “Why, child, that was no monster. That was  only an ox. He isn’t so big! If I really put my  mind to it, I could make myself as big as an ox.  Just watch me!” So the old frog blew himself  up. “Was he as big as I am now?” he asked.  “Oh, Father, much bigger,” cried the little  frogs. Again the father frog blew himself up  and asked his children if the ox could be as big  as that.  “Bigger, Father, a great deal bigger,” cho -  rused the little frogs. “If you blew yourself up  until you burst, you could not be as big as the  monster we saw in the swampy meadow.”  Provoked at being outdone, the old frog  made one more attempt. He blew and blew and  swelled and swelled until something went   pop.  The old frog had burst.  Moral:   Self-conceit leads to self-destruction.  The fable is told by Horace in his   Satires  (book 2), as well as by Thomas Carlyle in his   Mis -  cellanies,   from a German variant. Thackeray uses  it in the Prologue to his novel   The Newcomers.  See also:   aesopic fables  Froh   In Norse mythology, an ancient god  and all-father, whose worship was supplanted  by Odin’s cult. He appears in Wagner’s   Der  Ring des Nibelungen.  See also:   odin;   ring des nibelungen, der  Frolka Stay-at-Home   In Russian folklore,  a hero who rescued three princesses who had  been kidnapped. The first was held by a five-  headed dragon, the second by a seven-headed  dragon, and the third by a 12-headed dragon.  Frolka, aided by a nameless soldier and a man  called Erema, defeated all three monsters.  Fu   Daishi   Japanese   name   for   Chinese  Buddhist priest credited with the invention of the  revolving bookcase, containing the 6,771 sacred  books of Buddhism. It is believed that if the  bookcase is revolved, three times more merit will  be obtained than if one read all of the volumes.  Fuji Hime   In Japanese mythology, Princess  Fuji, who inhabits Fuji Yama, the most famous  mountain in Japan. Called Ko-no-hana-saku-  yahime (princess who causes the blossoms of  trees to flower), she is portrayed in Japanese  art with a large sun hat and a twig of wisteria  in her hand.  Fujiyama   In Japanese mythology, the sacred  spirit of Mount Fuji and the guardian spirit of  the nation. The mountain can only be climbed  after ritual purification, but each July thousands Aesop’s   The Frog and the Ox  Fujiyama   3  3

=== 페이지 411 ===
of pilgrims climb to the summit. A Shinto leg -  end describes the appearance of the mountain.  Many years ago an old man who cultivated  bamboo on the slopes found an infant girl and  named her Kaguya-hime. She was considered  the most beautiful girl in all of the land and  became a princess of the emperor. Seven years  after they were married, the princess told the  emperor that she was not mortal and wanted  to return to her celestial home. As a parting  gift she gave the emperor a magical mirror in  which he could always see her image. She then  disappeared. The emperor tried to follow her  to heaven by ascending Mount Fuji with the  mirror in his hands. On the summit he could  not find any trace of his princess, and his love  for her caused his breast to break open, and the  fiery passion set the mirror ablaze. Ever since  smoke has risen from the top of the mountain.  Fulgora   (lightning)   In   Roman   mythology,  goddess who protected houses against violent  storms.  Furina   (thief)   In Roman mythology, goddess  of robbers, worshipped at a sacred grove in  Rome. In some ancient texts she is identified with  the Furies. Her festivals were called Furinelia.  Mount Fuji  3  4   Fulgora

=== 페이지 412 ===
Fushi Ikazuchi   In Japanese mythology, one  of the Ikazuchi, the eight gods of thunder.  See also:   ikazuchi  Futen   In Japanese Buddhist mythology, god  of the winds, derived from the Hindu wind  god, Vayu. He is portrayed as an old man,  bareheaded, with flowing beard and garments,  walking and holding in his left hand a banner  blown by the wind. He is one of the Jiu No O,  w12 Japanese Buddhist gods and goddesses  adopted from Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o; vayu  Fylgia   (follower)   In Norwegian folklore, a  guardian spirit, or one’s double or soul. Often  the   fylgia   appears in dreams in animal form.  If one sees the   fylgia   when awake, it indicates  one’s death. When a person dies, the   fylgia  passes on to another member of the family.  Fylgia   3  5

=== 페이지 413 ===
6  3  6  Gabriel   (man of God)   In Jewish, Christian,  and Islamic mythology, archangel. Feast: 18  March in the Western church.  Gabriel plays a prominent role in the Bible  as a messenger of God. He first announces to  Daniel the return of the Jews from their cap -  tivity (Dan. 8:16) and explains the vision of the  various nations (Dan. 9:21). In the New Testa -  ment Gabriel announces to Zacharias the com -  ing birth of John the Baptist (Luke 1:19) and  to the Virgin Mary that she will be the mother  of Jesus (Luke 1:26). In Islam the Koran cred -  its Gabriel, who is called Jiburili (Jibril), with  dictating from the perfect copy in heaven the  earthly copy of the Koran.  Milton, in   Paradise Lost   (book 4:550), calls  Gabriel   the   “Chief   of   the   angelic   guards,”  recalling a Jewish belief. In his musical   Any -  thing Goes   Cole Porter has a brilliant song,  “Blow, Gabriel, Blow,” which credits the angel  with a magnificent trumpet and the task of  announcing the end of the world. (The song  was introduced by Ethel Merman.)  In Western Christian art Gabriel is usu -  ally portrayed as the messenger to the Virgin  Mary announcing the coming birth of Jesus.  He is often shown kneeling before her, hold -  ing a scroll with the words   Ave Maria, gratia  plena   (Hail Mary, full of grace). In Greek and  Byzantine portrayals Gabriel is usually shown  standing, not kneeling.  See   also:   daniel; john the baptist, st.;  koran, the; virgin mary; zacharias  Gada   In   Hindu   mythology,   the   younger  brother of Krishna (an incarnation of the god  Vishnu).  See also:   krishna; vishnu  Gaea   (Ge, Gaia)   (earth)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, Mother Earth; daughter of Chaos with  Eros and Tartarus; called Terra or Tellus by  the Romans. After the rule of Chaos (one of  the infernal deities), Gaea appeared and gave  birth to Uranus (the upper regions covering  the earth). Then after having sexual inter -  course with Uranus, she bore Cronus, Pallas,  Oceanus, the Clyclopes, and the Titans. From  the spilled blood and semen of Uranus she  gave   birth   to   the   Erinyes,   the   giants,   the  Meliae, and Aurora. From the severed geni -  tals   of   Uranus   she   became   the   mother   of  Aphrodite. An affair with Hephaestus pro -  duced   Erichthonius;   by   Oceanus   she   bore  Ceto, Crius, Eurybia, Nereus, Phorcys, and  Thaumas;   by   Poseidon   she   bore   Ogyges,  Charybdis, and Antaeus. She is also the moth -  er of Cecrops, Cranaus, Echo, Palaechthon,  Rumor, Arion, and the serpent that guarded  the Golden Fleece. Gaea appears in Hesiod’s  Theogony   (116 ff.), the Homeric Hymns (not  by Homer), and Vergil’s   Aeneid.  g

=== 페이지 414 ===
See   also:   antaeus;   aphrodite;   aurora;  echo; erichthonius; golden fleece; hephaes -  tus; hesiod; oceanus; pallas; titans; uranus  Gagavitz   (hill   of   fire)   In   the   mythology  of the Cakchiquels, a branch of the Mayan  Indians,   progenitor   and   culture   hero.   The  myths of Gagavitz are related in   The Annals of  the Cakchiquels   (16th century), along with their  legendary history. Early in the book, Gagvitz’s  companion Zactecauh (white mountain, hill of  snow) is killed trying to cross a ravine, leaving  Gagavitz alone. The hero arrives at Gagxanul  (the naked volcano), now called Santa Maria,  and is asked by the Indians there to help them  capture fire. One Indian, Zakitzunún (white  sparrow), offered to help. Gagavitz descended  into the volcano while Zakitzunún threw water  mixed with green stems of corn into the hole.  Gagavitz stayed for some time, and the people  were fearful he had been killed, but he emerged,  bringing fire. The two were called heroes. Later  Gagavitz sent warriors to capture Tolgom, then  changed himself into a serpent and died, leaving  two sons, Caynoh and Gaybatz.  Galahad   (hawk of battle)   In Arthurian leg -  end, the purest and noblest knight, son of  Lancelot   and   Elaine,   who   seeks   the   Holy  Grail. He was described by Walter Map in his  Quest of the San Graal.   When the Round Table  was founded, one seat, the Siege Perilous, was  left unoccupied and could be used only by the  knight who would succeed in the quest for the  Holy Grail. All others who had attempted to  sit in the seat had been swallowed up by the  earth. When Sir Galahad sat in the seat, he was  unharmed. Galahad went in search of the Holy  Grail, even “took the Lord’s body between his  hands,” and then died. Suddenly, according  to one medieval source, “a great multitude  of angels did bear his soul up to heaven” and  “since then was never no man that could say he  had seen the Holy Grail.”  See also:   elaine; holy grail; lancelot of  the lake; round table  Galanthis   (weasel)   In   Greek   mythology,  Alcmena’s maid. She aided her mistress dur -  ing the birth of Heracles when Hera sent the  childbirth goddess, Ilithyia, to retard Alcmena’s  labor with magic incantations. Galanthis fooled  Ilithyia by pretending that Alcmena had already  delivered.   Caught   off   guard,   Ilithyia’s   spell  was broken, and Alcmena immediately deliv -  ered Heracles. In a fury Ilithyia transformed  Galanthis into a weasel. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 9) tells of her transformation.  See also:   alcmena; hera; heracles; ovid;  weasel  Galatea   (milk-white)   In Greek mythology,  a Nereid, one of the 50 daughters of Nereus  and Doris; sister of Thetis and Amphitrite.  Galatea loved the handsome youth Acis, and  the Cyclops Polyphemus loved Galatea. When  Polyphemus saw Galatea and Acis alone, he  killed   Acis   by   hurling   a   rock   at   him.   The  stream of blood from Acis’s mangled body was  transformed by the gods into an inexhaust -  ible stream of limpid water, which runs down  to the sea to join Galatea. Theocritus’s   Idylls  (11) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13) tell  of the myth, as does Handel’s opera   Acis and  Galatea   (1721) with a libretto by John Gay.  The name Galatea also is given to the statue by  Pygmalion that was turned into a live woman  by Aphrodite. Pygmalion and Galatea became  the parents of Paphos. This myth is told in  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 10).  See also:   amphitrite; doris; nereids; ovid;  polyphemus; thetis  Gama Sennin   In Japanese folklore, a deified  mortal   portrayed   holding   a   frog,   sometimes  three-legged, in his hand, or with the animal  climbing over his clothes or shoulder. Various  folktales account for the iconography connected  with Gama Sennin. One version tells how Gama  Sennin went to bathe and was followed by a man  named Bagen, who assumed the form of a frog  to observe him. In a variant tale Gama Sennin  took the form of a frog whenever he went near  Gama Sennin   3 

=== 페이지 415 ===
398   Introduction  Sir Galahad   (The Deliverer)   (Edwin Austin Abbey)

=== 페이지 416 ===
the water. In still another, Gama Sennin sold a  drug to Bagen that made Bagen live 100 years.  This incident is portrayed with Gama Sennin  giving the pill to a frog, who is Bagen.  Gandharvas   In Hindu mythology, celestial  musicians who sing on mountaintops, under  the god Varuna. Sometimes they are danger -  ous at twilight. Originally, there was only one  Gandharva, mentioned in the sacred collec -  tion of hymns, the Rig-Veda; he guarded the  sacred Soma juice. In present-day Hinduism  the Gandharvas watch over marriage and pro -  tect virgins. One of their homes is in Alaka,  located on the sacred mountain Meru. An aeri -  al city, Vismapana (astounding), which appears  and disappears, also is said to be one of their  homes. It is often called Gandharva-nagana  (capital city of the Gandharvas). In post-Vedic  Hinduism and in Buddhism, Vismapana is a  synonym for a mirage.  See also:   meru; rig-veda; soma; varuna;  vedas  Ganelon   In the Charlemagne cycle of leg -  ends, a traitor. He was the count of Mayence  (Mainz) and one of Charlemagne’s paladins.  Jealousy   of   Roland   made   him   betray   them  all. He planned his evil deed with Marsillus,  the   Moorish   king,   and   was   successful.   The  Christians   were   defeated   at   the   Battle   of  Roncesvalles, which forms one of the main epi -  sodes of   The Song of Roland.   Ganelon was 61/2  feet tall, with large glaring eyes and fiery red  hair. He was taciturn and morose. In European  legend his name became a byword for a false  and faithless friend. He appears in Dante’s   The  Divine   Comedy   (Inferno)   and   is   grouped   by  Chaucer with Judas, the betrayer of Jesus, in the  “Nun’s Priest’s Tale” in   The Canterbury Tales.  See   also:   charlemagne; chaucer; judas  iscariot; paladins, the twelve; roland  Ganesha   (Ganesa, Gunesh, Gunputty)   (lord  of hosts)   In Hindu mythology, the elephant-  headed   god   of   wisdom   and   good   fortune.  Ganesha is one of the most popular gods in  present- day Hinduism. All sacrifices and reli -  gious ceremonies, all literary and musical com -  positions, and all worldly affairs (except funer -  als) are begun with an invocation to Ganesha.  Most Hindu texts open with a “reverence to  Ganesha” or “salutation to Ganesha.”  There are a variety of myths accounting for  his elephant head and human body. One is that  his mother, Parvati, wife of the god Shiva, was  so proud of her offspring that she asked Sani  (Saturn) to look at the child. Sani looked on  Ganesha, and the child’s head was immediately  burned to ashes. The god Brahma told Parvati  to replace the head with the first head she  could find—it was an elephant’s head.  A variant myth tells how Parvati went to  bathe and told her son Ganesha to watch the  door so that no one would disturb her. Shiva,  her husband, wished to enter. Ganesha tried to  stop his father, and Shiva cut the lad’s head off.  To pacify Parvati, Shiva replaced the head with  the first one he could acquire, which was an ele -  phant’s head. Another variant tells how Parvati  formed Ganesha’s head to suit her own desire,  and yet another myth tells how Shiva was cursed  for slaying Aditya (the sun) and was punished by  Ganesha  Ganesha   3 

=== 페이지 417 ===
having his son lose his head. To replace the head  Indra used the head from his elephant mount.  Elephant-headed Ganesha, however, has only  one tusk. The loss of the other tusk is accounted  for in various myths. One says Ganesha used  one of his tusks to transcribe the epic poem   The  Mahabharata   and then lost it. In another myth  his belly burst open from overeating, and the  moon laughed at him, so Ganesha broke off  his tusk and threw it at the moon, which slowly  darkened as a result. In either case Ganesha is  called Eka-danta (the single-tusked). Ganesha  is leader of the Gana Devatas (troops of lesser  gods), who attend his father Shiva.  One Hindu sect, the Ganapatyas, regarded  Ganesha as the supreme being or god. In the  Ganapati Upanishad   he is thus addressed:  Praise   to   thee,   O   Ganesha!   Thou   art  manifestly the truth; thou art undoubtedly  the creator, Preserver, and Destroyer, the  supreme Brahma, the eternal spirit.  In Indian art Ganesha is portrayed as a  short fat man with a big belly, four hands, and,  of course, his elephant head. In one hand he  holds a conch shell, in another a discus, in the  third a club or goad, and in the fourth a lotus.  Sometimes he is seen riding on a mouse or  attended by one, indicating, according to some  accounts, his conquest of demonic forces sym -  bolized by the rodent.  Ganesha has many epithets, among them  Kari-mikha (elephant-faced), Heramba (boast -  ful),   Lamba-karna   (long-eared),   Lambodara  (pendent-bellied),   Dwi-deha   (double-bod -  ies), Vighna-hara (remover of obstacles), and  Dwaimatura (having two mothers), an allusion  to another birth myth that he was born from  the sweat of his mother Parvati’s body.  See also:   mahabharata, the ; shiva  Ganges   (going strongly or swiftly)   In India,  sacred   river   and   goddess   whose   waters   are  believed to have the power of cleansing one of  past, present, and future sins.  According to Hindu mythology the Viyad -  ganga (heavenly Ganges) flowed from the toe  of the god Vishnu (some texts say Shiva) and  was brought to earth by the prayers of Bhagi -  rathi, a holy man. Bhagirathi called down the  river to cleanse the ashes of the 100 sons of  King Sagara; they had been burned to death by  the sage Kapila after they had accused Kapila  of stealing a horse that was to be sacrificed.  The sage, having his devotions interrupted,  “looked upon them for an instant, and they  were reduced to ashes by the flames that darted  from his person,” according to one account.  Some texts identify Kapila with the firegod  Agni. Though Bhagirathi called the river down  to earth, Ganga (who is also a goddess) was  caught by the god Shiva on his brow, and her  fall was checked by his matted locks. From this  action, Shiva gained the epithet Ganga-dhara  (upholder or controller of the Ganges). The  river descended from Shiva’s brow in several  streams: four in some accounts, ten in others,  seven being the generally accepted number.  Another name for the river is Sapta-sindhava  (the seven rivers).  See also:   shiva; vishnu  Ganymede   (rejoicing in virility)   In Greek  mythology, a beautiful Trojan boy, son of Tros  and Callirrhoë; brother of Assaracus, Cleopatra,  and   Ilus;   mispronounced   as   Catamitus   by  the   Romans,   hence   the   English   word   cata -  mite.   Zeus, in the form of an eagle, seduced  Ganymede and brought him to Olympus to  be his cupbearer. Hera, Zeus’s wife, hated the  boy, whom Zeus loved. In an earlier version  of the myth Ganymede was the son of King  Tros and was carried off by Zeus in exchange  for some horses. In the   Hymn to Aphrodite,   one  of the hymns attributed to Homer but not by  him, Ganymede is carried to heaven by a storm  wind, but in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 5) he was  snatched up by an eagle or, according to Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 10), by   Ganymede on Zeus’  eagle   Zeus himself. In some accounts of the  myth the eagle was turned into the constellation  400   Ganges

=== 페이지 418 ===
Aquila and Ganymede into Aquarius. In Greek  art Ganymede is portrayed as a beautiful youth.  On one fifth-century   b.c.e.   red-figure mixing  bowl he is shown holding a hoop and cock,  favorite gifts from older men to young men.  Ganymede’s myth is used in Aristophanes’ play  Peace,   and Plato uses it in his dialogue   Phaedrus  to explain Socrates’ love for his male pupils.  During the Christian Middle Ages, Ganymede  became a term for a homosexual. Marlowe’s  play   The Tragedy of Dido, Queen of Carthage  (1594) opens with a scene between Jupiter and  Ganymede. Ganymede asks Jupiter a favor, and  in return Jupiter says, “I will spend my time in  thy bright arms.” Ganymede has been painted  by Corregio, Rubens, and Rembrandt.  See also:   aeneid, the ; callirrhoë; hera;  zeus  Garboncias   In Hungarian folklore, a super -  natural being, born with all of his teeth or with  extra fingers. The being exercises magical pow -  ers when in a trance. It often carries a big black  book and begs for milk. Garboncias is similar  to   Tatlos,   another   supernatural   being   with  magical powers in Hungarian folklore.  Garden   of   the   Hesperides   In Greek  mythology,   a   garden   owned   by   Atlas   that  contained a tree with Golden Apples guarded  by the Hesperides and Ladon, a dragon. The  tree was a gift to Hera when she married Zeus.  Heracles 11th labor was to obtain the apples.  He killed the dragon and took the apples, but  they could exist only in the magic garden,  so they were given to Athena, who returned  them.   Paris   presented   one   of   the   Golden  Apples to Aphrodite when he chose her in the  Judgment of Paris. Hesiod’s   Theogony,   Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 4), and Tennyson’s   The  Hesperides   deal with the myth.  See also:   aphrodite; atlas; hesiod; hes -  perides; ladon; ovid; paris; zeus  Gareth   (gentle)   In   Arthurian   legend,   the  youngest   son   of   King   Lot   of   Orkney   and  Margawse, Arthur’s half sister. Gareth’s mother  did not want her son to be at Arthur’s court and  jestingly said she would consent to his going  there only if he concealed his name and went  as a scullion for 12 months. Gareth agreed. Sir  Kay, the king’s steward, named him Beaumains  because his hands were extremely large. At the  end of a year Gareth was knighted. He aided  Lynette by freeing her sister, Liones (Lyonors),  who was being held prisoner by Sir Ironside at  Castle Perilous. At first Lynette treated Gareth  with scorn, calling him a dishwasher and a  kitchen boy. After Gareth overthrew five knights  and freed her sister, she changed her opinion  of him. Tennyson retells the tale in “Gareth  and Lynette,” part of his   Idylls of the King.   He  changed the medieval legend and has Gareth  marry Lynette instead of her sister, Liones.  See also:   arthur; lot, king  Gargantua   (gullet)   In   medieval   European  (perhaps Celtic?) folklore, a giant famous for  his enormous appetite. He appears in Rabelais’s  Gargantua and Pantagruel,   in which he is the  Ganymede on Zeus’s eagle  Gargantua   40 

=== 페이지 419 ===
Gargantua, as depicted in Rabelais’s   Gargantua and Pantagruel  402   Gargantua

=== 페이지 420 ===
father of Pantagruel. One of his most famous  exploits is to swallow five pilgrims in a salad. The  name probably derives from Spanish   garganta,  meaning gullet, but Rabelais says that when  Gargantua was born he was so large that one of  his parents cried out   Que grand tu as!   (how large  you are!), which sounds like “Gargantua.” In   As  You Like It   Shakespeare has a character say: “You  must borrow me Gargantua’s mouth first: ’tis a  word too great for any mouth of this age’s size.”  Garide Bird   In Siberian mythology, a fan -  tastic bird who defeated the evil giant snake  Losy.   He   was   a   form   of   the   creator   god  Otshirvani and is a variant of the Garuda bird  in Hindu mythology.  See also:   garuda; losy; otshirvani  garlic   A strong-flavored spice. In European  folklore, garlic was supposed to keep vampires  away and was worn in a small bag around the  neck. It is used extensively in folk medicine.  According to legend, garlic can destroy the  magnetic power of a loadstone.  Garm   (Garmr)   (barking)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, the hound of the underworld, chained  in Gnipahellir, the cave at the entrance to  Niflheim. Garm will break loose at Ragnarok  (the end of the world) and kill the god Tyr  and in turn be killed by Tyr. The name seems  to   have   the   meaning   of   one   who   destroys  and appears as a base word in kennings. For  example, fire is called “Garm of wood.” Garm  appears to be identical with Fenrir and appears  in the   Prose Edda   and the   Poetic Edda.  See also:   fenrir; kenning; niflheim;   poetic  edda ;   prose edda ; ragnarok; tyr  Garuda   (the devourer)   In Hindu mythology,  a fantastic bird on which the god Vishnu rides.  Garuda is the enemy of all serpents and the  king of all birds, having inherited his hatred for  serpents from his mother, Vinata, who had quar -  reled with Kadru, the mother of serpents. When  Garuda was born, he was mistaken for Agni, the  fire god, because of his brilliance. (He is identi -  fied in some texts with fire and the sun.)  Once Garuda stole the Amrita, the water of  life, from the gods in order to purchase with  it the freedom of his mother, Vinata, who was  under the control of the evil Kadru. Indra dis -  covered the theft and fought a fierce battle with  Garuda, in which the Amrita was recovered but  Indra’s thunderbolt was smashed.  One legend in the epic poem   The Mahab -  harata   tells how Garuda’s parents gave him  permission to eat any evil man but not to touch  any priest. Once, however, Garuda swallowed  a Brahman and his wife, but the Brahman so  burned Garuda’s throat that he disgorged both  the priest and his wife.  In Indian art Garuda is portrayed as having  the head, wings, talons, and back of an eagle  and the body and limbs of a man. His face is  white, his wings are red, and his body is golden;  or he may be green.  Garuda   has   many   epithets,   among   them  Garutman   (chief   of   birds),   Pannaga-nasana  (destroyer of serpents), Sarparati (enemy of ser -  pents), Taraswin (the swift), and Vishnu-ratha  (vehicle of Vishnu), in reference to his being  the god’s mount. Sometimes Garuda takes the  Garuda  Garuda   403

=== 페이지 421 ===
form of Tarkshya, a fantastic figure who appears  in some myths as a horse or bird. In variants  Tarkshya is called the father of Garuda. Garuda  is also called Aksha in some texts.  See also:   agni; amrita; brahman;   mahab -  harata, the ; soma; vishnu  Gasparilla,   José   Gaspar   (died   1821)   In  U.S. history and folklore, king of the pirates  who   established   the   kingdom   of   Gasparilla  Island on the Florida Gulf Coast. He would  capture a ship, kill all of the men, and take  all the women into his harem. When he was  finally captured by an American ship, he tied a  cabin chain around his waist and jumped over -  board, drowning himself.  Every February unruly plunderers take over  the city of Tampa, Florida, in honor of the  legendary pirate José Gaspar. The “Gasparilla  Pirate Fest” begins when the world’s only ful -  lyrigged pirate ship sails into Tampa Bay, flanked  by hundreds of pleasure craft and vessels of all  shapes and sizes. The black-hulled   Jose Gasparilla  measures 165 feet in length and is topped by  three masts that rise 100 feet above deck. Tug -  boats tow the craft and its crew of 700 pirates  with flags flying and cannons booming as the  vessel makes its way into the bay. The Tampa bay  professional football team is called the “Pirates.”  Gasterocheires   (bellies   with   hands)   In  Greek   mythology,   the   seven   Cyclopes   who  built the walls of Tiryns.  Gayomart   (Gaiumart, Gaya-Maretan, Gayo-  Maratan, Gayomard, Gayumarth, Kaiomarts,  Kaiumers, Kayumard, Kayumurs) (dying life)  In Persian mythology, primeval man and  culture hero, created by the good god, Ahura  Mazda. Gayomart existed as a spirit for 3,000  years before he assumed corporeal form as a  handsome youth. After living 30 years he was  poisoned by the evil spirit, Ahriman, at the  instigation of Jeh, “the whore.”  Gayomart appears in the Persian epic poem  Shah Namah,   by Firdusi, as the first king in the  world. He lived in the mountains and dressed  in animal skins. The animals “assembled round  his throne, and did him homage.” He had a  son, Siyamek, whom he dearly loved, but a  demon slew the lad. Later the demon himself  was slain by Husheng, the son of Siyamek.  Firdusi found Gayomart in Persian mythol -  ogy, which tells how he was created along with  the Celestial Bull. The evil Ahriman, however,  “fell .   .   . upon the Bull and Gayomart: and slew  them both.” The seed of Gayomart fell to the  ground, as did the seed of the Celestial Bull.  From Gayomart’s seed a rhubarb plant sprung  up, which produced the first human couple,  Mashye   and   Mashyane;   from   the   Celestial  Bull’s seed all kinds of animals arose.  In Persian art Gayomart often appears dressed  in animal skins teaching his people the arts of  civilization. Sometimes his robes are more elabo -  rate, with only a hint of the animal-skin origin.  See also:   ahriman; ahura mazda; hush -  eng;   shah namah  Geb   (Keb,   Qeb,   Seb)   (earth)   In   Egyptian  mythology,   god   who   personified   the   earth’s  surface; the brother-husband of the sky goddess  Nut. According to one myth, Geb was separated  from Nut by the god Shu at the request of the  sun god Ra, who was angered over their sexual  embrace. Thus, the sky above and the earth  below were created. The separation, however,  left Geb inconsolable, and he cried so fiercely  his wailing could be heard day and night, and his  tears filled the oceans and seas.  Geb was often portrayed in Egyptian art  in grief, lying under the feet of Shu, his head  raised on one arm and one knee bent. He is  identified in some myths as the father of Osiris,  Isis, Nephthys, Set, and Horus, and as such he  was known as “father of the gods” or “chief of  the gods.” It was also common to regard Geb as  the appointed “heir of the gods” and the leader  of the great Ennead. Geb also was portrayed as  a man wearing on his head a goose, which is the  hieroglyph of his name. The animal was also  sacred to him, Geb being called Kenken-ur (the  404   Gasparilla, José Gaspar

=== 페이지 422 ===
great cackler), referring to the belief expressed  in some myths that he laid the egg from which  the world sprang. In classical Greek times Geb  was identified with Cronus, who was the father  of the great Olympian deities.  See also:   ennead; horus; isis; nephthys;  nut; osiris; ra; set; shu  Geirrod and Agnar   (Geirroth) (spear thrower)  In Norse mythology, sons of King Hrauding;  one evil, the other good; watched over by the  god Odin and his wife Frigga. One day, when  the two boys were eight and ten years old, they  went fishing. Suddenly a storm arose, and their  boat drifted far out to sea. It was finally stranded  on an island inhabited by an old couple, Odin  and Frigga in disguise. The boys were warmly  welcomed and kindly treated, Odin choosing  Geirrod as his favorite and teaching him the use  of arms, while Frigga chose Agnar as her favor -  ite. The boys stayed on the island for the winter.  When spring came, they left for home on a  boat that Odin provided. As the boat neared the  shore, Geirrod quickly sprang out and shoved it  far into the water, bidding his brother sail away.  The wind veered, and Agnar was carried off,  while Geirrod hurried home. He was joyfully  received by his father, King Hrauding, and in  time succeeded him on the throne.  Years later Odin taunted his wife, Frigga,  about the outcome of the boys—his favorite  had become king, whereas her favorite had  married a giantess. Frigga replied that Agnar  had a kind heart, but Geirrod was evil and  lacked hospitality, mistreating his guests. Odin  said he would prove that the charge was not  true. Assuming the guise of a wanderer, wear -  ing his cloud-colored cloak and slouch hat and  carrying his pilgrim staff, Odin set out. But  Frigga, to outwit him, sent Geirrod a secret  warning to beware of a man in a wide mantle  and broad-brimmed hat, saying he was a wicked  enchanter who would destroy Geirrod.  As soon as Odin arrived, he was arrested and  chained between two fires, which, however, did  not destroy him. Eight days passed, and he was  given no food, except for some ale that Agnar,  who was a menial servant in his brother’s pal -  ace, gave him. At the end of the eighth day  Odin began to sing, first softly, then louder, a  prophecy that the king would die by his own  sword. As the last notes of the prophecy ended,  the chains fell, the flames went out, and Odin  appeared in his godlike form. Geirrod drew his  sword to kill Odin but tripped and fell on the  blade. Agnar then was made king by Odin. In  some accounts Agnar is said to have been the  son of Geirrod, not his brother.  See also:   frigga; odin  Genius   (guardian spirit)   In Roman religion,  a spirit who presided over the birth of a per -  son, a place, or a thing, determining character  and destiny. Genius is related to the Greek  concept of the daemon. A person’s genius came  into being at his birth and accompanied him  throughout life, becoming his other living soul  after death. Often a personal genius was por -  trayed as a person, but a genius of a place was  portrayed as a serpent. In Shakespeare’s   Comedy  of Errors   the Duke says of the twins Antipholi  and Dromios:  One of these men is genius to the other;  And so of these. Which is the natural man  And which the spirit (5.1.332–4).  Genius  Genius   405

=== 페이지 423 ===
St. George   (Albrecht Dürer)  406   George, St.

=== 페이지 424 ===
Spenser cites genius as a god of generation  in both his   Epithalamion   (398–9) and   The Faerie  Queene   (3.6.31–2). Milton’s   Ode on the Morning  of Christ’s Nativity   (184–6) uses the word to  refer to departing pagan gods.  See also:   daemon  George,   St.   (tiller   of   the   ground)   (third  century)   In Christian legend, patron saint of  England, Germany, and Venice; also of soldiers  and armorers. Greek Christians gave the title  Great Martyr to St. George and venerated  him as one of the most important saints in the  Eastern church. Feast, 23 April.  In western Europe St. George’s fame was  established during the Crusades when Western  and Eastern churches came into contact with  one another. His cult was brought to England  in the 14th century by Edward III, who chose  him as patron of England and of the Order of  the Garter. There are many versions of the  saint’s life, the most popular being the one in  The Golden Legend   by Jacobus de Voragine. St.  George was a knight born in Cappadocia. In  one of its cities a dragon molested the popula -  tion. To appease it, lots were cast for either a  young man or woman to feed to it so that it  would not destroy the entire population. One  day the lot fell to the daughter of the king. The  king tried to stall the event, but the young girl  finally had to offer herself to the dragon. Just  as the dragon was about to attack the girl, St.  George appeared on his horse and “drew out  his sword and garnished him with the sign of  the cross” and then attacked the dragon, which  fell to the ground. George then took the young  girl’s girdle and placed it around the dragon’s  neck, and the “dragon followed her as if it had  been a meek beast and debonair.”  St. George is a favorite subject with art -  ists, offering an allegorical expression of the  Christian hero defeating evil. Other saints are  also depicted as slaying dragons, such as St.  Michael, St. Margaret, St. Silvester, and St.  Martha. Among those who painted St. George  are Mantegna, Jan Van Eyck, Rubens, Raphael,  Tintoretto, and Dante G. Rossetti. He appears  in   an   old   ballad   in   Percy’s   Reliques   and   in  Spenser’s   The Faerie Queene.  See also:   dragon;   golden legend, the  Gerda   (Gerdr, Gerd) (fence enclosing tilled  land)   In Norse mythology, wife of Frey; “the  most beautiful of women,” according to the  Prose Edda.   She was the daughter of Gymir and  the giantess Aurboda and was wooed by the  god Frey, whom she at first refused. She finally  accepted numerous gifts from the god.  See also:   frey;   prose edda  Germanicus Caesar   (15   b.c.e. –19   c.e. )   In  Roman history and legend, general, nephew,  and adopted son of the Emperor Tiberius.  According to legend, he was poisoned through  black magic by Cnaeus Calpurnius Piso, gover -  nor of Syria. Poussin’s   The Death of Germanicus  pictures his death.  Geronimo   (1829–1909)   In U.S. history and  western folklore, popular name of Goyathlay  (one who yawns), a warrior who caused havoc  on the Mexico-U.S. border for some 14 years,  finally   being   captured   by   General   George  Crook. He was a Bedonkohe Apache (grandson  of Mahko) by birth and a Net’na during his  youth and early manhood. Some say that, as  leader of the Apaches at Arispe in Sonora, he  performed such daring feats that the Mexicans  singled him out with the sobriquet Geronimo  (Spanish for “Jerome”). Some attributed his  numerous raiding successes to powers conferred  by   supernatural   beings,   including   a   reputed  invulnerability to bullets. He appears in numer -  ous Western tales as the symbol of Indian resis -  tance to the white man. At the end of his life he  dictated   Geronimo’s Story of His Life.   His legend  was filmed twice by Hollywood under the title  Geronimo,   in 1939 and in 1962.  Geryon   (crane)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  monster with three heads or three bodies and  wings, son of Chrysaor and Callirrhoë, whose  Geryon   40 

=== 페이지 425 ===
flocks were guarded by Orthus, a two-headed  dog, and Eurytion, a shepherd. Heracles’ tenth  labor was to steal the flocks and drive them  back to Greece. The hero killed the shepherd,  the dog, and Geryon. Dante’s   Divine Comedy  (Inferno) uses Geryon as a symbol of fraud.  Geryon is the guardian of the Eighth Circle of  Hell; he carries Vergil and Dante to its lowest  region. William Blake depicted Geryon in his  illustrations of Dante’s epic.  See also:   callirrhoë; eurytion; heracles  Gesar Khan   Mongolian epic poem on the  life of a fifth-century   c.e.   hero. The poem was  made available to Europe in a German transla -  tion by I. J. Schmidt in 1925 that was based  on one printed from woodblocks in Beijing  in 1716. In the work Gesar Khan is born with  a divine mission: to bring peace and rule the  world. As a small boy he is persecuted by his  uncle, but in the poem he overcomes not only  his uncle but demons, evil kings, and giants,  rescues his mother from the underworld, and  brings peace to China. Temples to Gesar Khan  are found throughout Tibet, where he is a  national hero. In China he is identified with the  god of war, Kuan-yu. Full name: Gesar Ling of  Khrom, which is apparently a Tibetan translit -  eration of “Emperor Caesar of Rome.”  Ghost Dance   In the late 1880s, many North  American Indian tribes faced poverty, hunger,  and disease, and sought means to salvage and  revitalize their traditional cultures. In 1889,  a Paiute shaman named Wovoka had a vision  during an eclipse of the Sun in which he saw  the   second   coming   of   Christ   and   received  a warning about the evils of the white man.  Geryon   (William Blake)  40    Gesar Khan

=== 페이지 426 ===
The result was a new religion, which was a  reaction to forced submission to government  authority on the reservations. Word began to  spread among the Indians that a great Indian  Messiah had come to liberate them. The new  religion was called the Ghost Dance by white  people because of its precepts of resurrection  and reunion with the dead. Converts of the  new religion were supposed to take part in the  Ghost Dance to hasten the arrival of the new  era as promised by the Messiah. The Lakotas  adopted the religion and the dance, and com -  posed a sacred song of hope:  The whole world is coming,  A nation is coming, a nation is coming,  The eagle has brought the message to the  tribe.  The Father says so, the Father says so.  Over the whole earth they are coming,  The buffalo are coming, the buffalo are  coming,  The crow has brought the message to the  tribe,  The Father says so, the Father says so.  The Ghost Dance religion promised an apoca -  lypse and a world that would be re-created with  Indians as the inheritors of the new earth; white  people would be obliterated; the buffalo and  antelope would return; and ancestors would rise  and once again roam the earth. Believers were  to participate in frequent ceremonial cleansing,  prayer, chanting, and, most important, dancing  the Ghost Dance. The Bureau of Indian Affairs  outlawed the Ghost Dance, fearing the large  numbers of Ghost Dancers and that their rituals  were precursors to renewed Indian militancy.  Ghost Riders   In American folklore a legend  and a popular song tell of a ghostly herd of cattle  moving across a stormy sky. In Europe, espe -  cially in German-speaking countries, the legend  of the Wild Hunt also tells of a horde moving  unseen over the trees and across the sky.  See also:   wild hunt  ghoul   In Arabic legend, demonic being who  feeds on human bodies. A ghoul may be either  male (ghul) or female (ghulah). Ghouls eat  corpses of young children, often taking bod -  ies from graves. If no graveyard is available,  they will pursue live victims. Considered the  offspring of Iblis, the Islamic Satan, ghouls  can appear in various animal forms. Islamic  tradition says Muhammad denied that any such  beings exist, though some of his followers said  he only denied that ghouls could assume vari -  ous shapes. The term is now applied to certain  types of sadists. Krafft-Ebing in   Psychopathia  Sexualis   tells of Sergeant Bertrand, who stole  bodies from Paris cemeteries in 1848 and was  dubbed a ghoul by the popular press.  See also:   iblis; muhammad  Gideon   (he who cuts down)   (12th century  b.c.e. )   In the Bible, O.T. (Judges), fifth of  the judges of Israel. Gideon, a farmer, was  threshing corn in a winepress to hide it from  the   Midianites   when   an   angel   appeared   to  him, telling him he was to deliver Israel (Judg.  6:11–40) from bondage. When Gideon asked  the angel for proof of his identity, the angel  touched Gideon’s bread and meat with his staff,  and they burst into flames. Convinced that  the angel was from God, Gideon prepared to  battle the Midianites. He then tested his army  of 10,000 men by observing them when they  stopped at a stream to drink water. Most of the  men bent down and placed their faces in the  water, but 300 of the men scooped the water  into their hands to drink. Gideon determined  that these 300 were his best soldiers because  by not putting their faces into the water they  remained constantly alert. He dismissed all but  the 300 soldiers and staged a surprise attack  against the Midianites, convincing the enemy  that they were outnumbered by having his men  blow trumpets and carry torches concealed in  pitchers. When the trumpets were blown and  the pitchers broken, revealing the torches, the  Midianites fled. Gideon’s attribute in Western  art is the broken pitcher (Judg. 7:2–23). In  Gideon   40 

=== 페이지 427 ===
the New Testament Epistle to the Hebrews  Gideon is cited as a great man of faith.  Gidja   In Australian mythology, one of the  names of the moon, a male god who created  the first woman by castrating Yalungur, the  Eagle Hawk.  See also:   deert; koopoo; najara  Gikuyu (Kikuyu), Masai, and Kamba   In  African mythology (Kenya), the three sons of  God. Each of the sons became the father of a  tribe named after him.  One myth explains how God, who lived on  top of Mount Kenya, gave a choice to his sons.  They were each to choose one from among  three possible gifts. Gikuyu chose the digging  stick, and his people became farmers. Kamba  chose the bow, and his people became hunters.  Masai chose the spear, and his people tended  herds. In a variant myth God took Gikuyu to a  high place, showing him all that God had made.  In the center of creation was a special area  selected for Gikuyu, where fig trees grew. God  also gave Gikuyu a wife, Moombi, who bore  him nine daughters. Gikuyu yearned for sons  4  0   Gidja  Gideon and the Angel of God   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)

=== 페이지 428 ===
and went to God, who explained to him what  he had to do in order to have sons. Gikuyu did  as God told him, and when he returned home,  nine young men were waiting there for him.  Gikuyu permitted them to marry his daugh -  ters after they agreed to live in his household  according to matrilineal descent and promised  that property would be divided equally among  the daughters on their parents’ death.  In time, each of the daughters founded a  clan that bore her name. Women were per -  mitted to engage in polyandry, that is, they  could each marry several husbands. The men,  however, grew tired of sharing their wives with  other men and planned a revolt. They agreed  to make love to their respective wives at the  same time in the hope that the women would  become pregnant and therefore less able to put  down the insurrection planned by the men.  The plan worked, and the group changed its  name from Moombi to Gikuyu. Polygamy was  instituted, allowing men to have several wives.  The women, however, on threat of killing all of  the male children, won the right to retain the  original female names for the clans.  Giles,   St.   (young goat)   (died c. 712)   In  Christian legend, patron of beggars, blacksmiths,  and cripples; one of the Holy Helpers. Venerated  at St. Gilles, Provence. Feast, 1 September.  The legend of St. Giles, one of the most  popular saints of the Middle Ages, is found in  The Golden Legend   by Jacobus de Voragine, a col -  lection of saints’ lives written in the 13th century.  Giles was born in Athens of royal blood. He was  instructed in Bible studies from his youth. One  day when he was on his way to mass, he met a  sick man who asked him for alms. Giles gave  him his cloak. When the cloak was placed on the  crippled man, he was restored to health. Some  time later Giles’s parents died, leaving him heir,  and he offered his wealth to the church.  One day as he was returning from church,  he met a man who had been bitten by a serpent.  Giles prayed over the man, and instantly the poi -  son came out; the man’s health was restored. At  another time a man who was possessed by a devil  was cured by Giles. These miracles, however,  did not make Giles proud. Giles’s fame reached  King Charles (in some accounts said to be Char -  lemagne), who invited him to court and would  often seek his advice. The king told Giles that he  suffered from a secret sin that he could not even  tell the saint. One Sunday, while Giles was saying  mass, an angel came down with a paper on which  was written the king’s sin, a prayer for Giles to  recite, and God’s pardon. The paper was shown  to the king, who then repented.  St. Giles was widely venerated in Europe.  In England alone some 160 churches are dedi -  cated to him. The name Giles is the English  form of the Latin Aegidius, one of the most  common names of the Middle Ages.  See   also:   charlemagne; fourteen holy  helpers;   golden legend, the  Gilgamesh   (Gilgamos, Gisdhubar, Gistubar,  Izubar)   (hero,   father)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology, hero king of Uruk in Mesopotamia  who appears in a cycle of legends and myths,  many incorporated into   The Epic of Gilgamesh.  Some Near Eastern scholars believe Gilgamesh  to have been a historical person, the fifth king  of Uruk, around whom a group of myths and  legends evolved over the centuries. In some  ancient accounts not part of the Gilgamesh  epic, Gilgamesh’s father is said to have been a  lilla,   which may mean an ignorant person or a  fool; other accounts say his father was a priest  of Kullab; and still others say Gilgamesh was  the son of Lugulbanda, a shepherd god, who  appears in the epic poem.  The Epic of Gilgamesh,   told more than 4,000  years   ago,   predates   the   Hebrew   scriptures  and the Homeric epics. Relating Gilgamesh’s  quest for immortality, the epic speaks to us  today in deeply moving human terms about  our mortality. Numerous variant versions of  the epic poem emerged throughout ancient  Near Eastern history, indicating the extreme  popularity of Gilgamesh. The most celebrated  version, though incomplete, is preserved on  Gilgamesh   4 

=== 페이지 429 ===
12 clay tablets from the library at Nineveh  of Ashurnasirpal (seventh century   b.c.e. ). The  tablets were discovered in the 19th century and  subsequently installed at the British Museum in  London as one of its prize possessions. When  the   gods created   Gilgamesh, they endowed  him with superhuman gifts and powers. His  body was stronger and his courage greater than  those of any other man. As a child Gilgamesh  had dreamed of a being like himself, strong and  handsome. He told his mother, Ninsun, about  the dreams and how he longed for a companion  equal to himself, but his mother was unable  to help him, so he grew up unique and alone.  Gilgamesh was proud of his godlike powers  and used them to oppress his people with harsh  laws, unjust taxes, and forced labor in build -  ing Uruk’s mighty walls. No man or woman  was safe from Gilgamesh. Maidens, wives, and  even young men were taken by Gilgamesh to  satisfy his lust. After many years of suffering,  the people called on the gods to come to their  aid. In response the goddess Aruru created  Enkidu, a rival for Gilgamesh. Although as  strong and courageous as Gilgamesh, Enkidu’s  body was covered with matted hair like that of  a wild animal. The hair on his head was long  like a woman’s. Knowing nothing of civiliza -  tion or the ways of men and women, Enkidu  lived among the wild animals and was their  companion. One day a young hunter spotted  Enkidu   freeing   a   trapped   animal.   Terrified  by Enkidu’s primitive appearance, the young  man hid. When Enkidu departed, the hunter  ran home to tell his father what he had seen.  His father advised him to go to Uruk and tell  Gilgamesh.   When   Gilgamesh   heard   about  Enkidu, his proud nature was deeply offended.  He told the hunter to go back with a temple  prostitute to seduce the wild man. The woman  exposed herself, and Enkidu became inflamed  with sexual desire. The two lay together for  six days and seven nights. Having exhausted  himself with the woman, Enkidu returned to  his animal companions, but they all fled from  him. “Enkidu,” said the woman, “now you are  like a god because you have experienced sexual  desire. Come with me to Uruk to meet the  great King Gilgamesh.”  When the two arrived in the city, they saw  the people celebrating a coming marriage. But  Gilgamesh came to the assembly hall to take the  bride to his bed, as was his right as king. When  Enkidu saw Gilgamesh approach the assembly  hall, he stepped out of the crowd and blocked  the   way.   The   two   men   grappled   with   one  another like two bulls. After Gilgamesh threw  Enkidu to the ground, Gilgamesh’s furor ceased.  He stared at Enkidu, recognizing the friend and  companion of his dreams. “There’s not another  man like you,” Enkidu said to Gilgamesh. “You  are favored by the gods, for your strength sur -  passes that of all men.” Gilgamesh bent over  and helped Enkidu to his feet. The two then  embraced and kissed one another, sealing their  friendship. Gilgamesh brought Enkidu to the  palace to introduce him to his mother, Ninsun.  When Ninsun realized that Enkidu was the man  who had appeared in Gilgamesh’s dreams, she  adopted him as her own son. Because of Enki -  du’s tender love, Gilgamesh softened toward his  people and was no longer oppressive. He estab -  lished justice and peace in Uruk.  But beyond Uruk’s protective walls was a  forest inhabited by Humbaba, a fierce mon -  ster who guarded the Cedar Tree, sacred to  the earth god Enlil. No man ever returned  alive from Humbaba’s mysterious domain. Gil -  gamesh and Enkidu went to the cedar forest  to battle Humbaba. Both men attacked the  monster, and with the aid of Shamash, the  god who protected Gilgamesh, the monster  was defeated. Enkidu, clutching Gilgamesh’s  sword, slashed off Humbaba’s massive head,  which crashed loudly to the ground. Cries from  the trees erupted throughout the forest. Even  the sacred Cedar Tree cried out, “Why have  you done this evil deed?” The two men then  cut down the sacred tree.  The goddess Ishtar was so impressed with  Gilgamesh’s daring that she asked him to become  her lover. Gilgamesh refused, however, remem -  4  2   Gilgamesh

=== 페이지 430 ===
bering how she had destroyed all of her previ -  ous lovers. Determined that Gilgamesh should  be punished for insulting her, Ishtar appealed  to her father, Anu, to create Gudanna, or Alu  (the strong), a majestic Bull of Heaven. But Gil -  gamesh and Enkidu also destroyed the Bull of  Heaven. “You’ll suffer, Gilgamesh, for scorning  me and killing the Bull of Heaven,” Ishtar cried  out. To add to the insult, Enkidu challenged the  goddess by throwing the bull into her face.  A council of the gods was held, and it was  decided that Enkidu had to die. Enkidu’s body  began to waste away. On the 12th day of his  suffering he cried out to Gilgamesh, “The great  gods have cursed me. They have no pity. I must  die this shameful death, denied the glory of  dying heroically in battle.” Enkidu then passed  into a deep sleep that led to death. “Enkidu,  Enkidu, my beloved friend and brother,” Gil -  gamesh cried out in anguish. “Enkidu, I weep  for you like a wailing woman. You were the ax  by my side, the sword in my belt, the shield  before me. And now you’ve been taken from me  by the jealous gods.” For seven days and seven  nights Gilgamesh cried over his friend’s body.  After Enkidu’s burial Gilgamesh left Uruk  and roamed from place to place. But he could  find   neither   rest   nor   peace   of   mind.   His  thoughts were constantly on Enkidu and on  his own mortality: “I’ll also die and worms will  feast on my flesh. I now fear death and have  lost all my courage.” Gilgamesh then made the  arduous journey to the land of Utnapishtim,  the hero of the Great Flood, to seek the secret  of immortal life possessed by Utnapishtim and  his wife. Though they told him he could not  be immortal, they also gave him the location of  a plant that would renew his youth. Gilgamesh  found the plant, but when he rested it was  stolen by a snake. Sadly Gilgamesh returned  to Uruk, and Enkidu’s spirit appeared to him.  When he realized that death was the lot of all,  he resigned himself to his mortality.  Near   Eastern   mythology   accorded   Gil -  gamesh the status of a minor god, as it did to  his beloved Enkidu. Gilgamesh was invoked as  an underworld deity and was associated with  Tammuz, another man who descended to the  land of the dead. He had control over the souls  of heroes, whom he released from their prison  house of death for nine days during the months  of July and August.  Bohusalav   Martinu’s   cantata   for   soloists,  chorus, and orchestra,   The Epic of Gilgamesh,   is  based on R. Campbell Thompson’s English ver -  sion of the poem. Ross Alexander’s   Gilgamesh: A  Primitive Ritual   tells the epic in dramatic form.  See also:   anu; aruru; enkidu; enlil; ishtar;  shamash; tammuz; utnapishtim  Gil Morice   A Scottish ballad, included in  Percy’s   Reliques,   that tells of a natural son of  an earl and the wife of Lord Barnard. He is  brought up “in the gude grene wode.” Lord  Barnard, thinking Gil Morice to be his wife’s  lover, killed him with a broadsword, setting his  head on a spear.  See also:   reliques  Ginnungagap   (gaping chaos filled with magic  powers)   In   Norse   mythology,   the   primeval  abyss between Muspell and Niflheim where the  primeval giant Ymir was born and where he was  slain by the gods Odin, Vili, and Ve. From Ymir’s  body the earth was formed. One of the roots of  Yggdrasil runs down to where the Ginnungagap  used to be. In the   Prose Edda   it is described in  the following way: “When those rivers which are  called Elivagar came so far from their source that  the yeasty venom accompanying them hardened  like slag, it turned into ice. Then when that ice  formed and was firm, a drizzling rain that arose  from the venom poured over it and cooled it into  rime, and one layer of ice formed on top of the  other throughout Ginnungagap.”  See also:   muspell; nifelheim;   prose edda ;  yggdrasil; ymir  ginseng   A   root   somewhat   resembling   a  human body, used mainly in folk medicine. In  Oriental folk medicine ginseng has long been  regarded as a miracle cure, credited with heal -  ginseng   4  3

=== 페이지 431 ===
ing epilepsy, insomnia, coughing, mental dis -  orders, and digestive and respiratory illnesses,  as well as epidemic illnesses such as cholera,  measles, dysentery, malaria, typhoid, influenza,  and other diseases. It was also an antidote to  impotence and a sexual stimulant. In Korean  legend a 15-year-old boy named Kim lived in  a rundown hut with his father, Kang-won-do,  who was dying. Kim prayed every day to the  mountain spirit. One day he fell asleep during  prayer, and the mountain spirit appeared and  led him to the place where ginseng was grow -  ing. Directed by the spirit, he prepared a drink  from the root of the ginseng and gave it to his  father,   who   recovered.   In   another   Oriental  legend a poor man discovered some ginseng  and tried to sell it in his village at an exorbitant  price. The man was arrested for greed but man -  aged to hide the ginseng inside his jacket. When  the judge demanded the ginseng be presented  as evidence, the man took out the root and ate  it. The root made him so strong he was able to  kill the guards and escape. Ginseng is not to be  confused with the strong alcoholic drink named  gin-sling, made of gin and lemon juice.  Girdle   of   Venus   In   Greek   and   Roman  mythology, the girdle of Aphrodite, a magic  girdle that evoked sexual passion in men and  gods. Aphrodite used it and often lent it out.  Once she lent it to Hera, Zeus’s wife, who  wanted to beguile the god and take his mind off  aiding the Trojans in the war, giving the Greeks,  whom Hera favored, a chance in battle.  See also:   aphrodite; hera; venus; zeus  Girl Who Was Already Queen, The   In  this   Tibetan   story   a   poor   farmer   and   his  wife   are   blessed   with   an   unusual   daughter.  Immediately after her birth, the farmer’s for -  tune changes, and everything goes well for  him and his entire family. He is proud and  attributes this good fortune to his hard work.  He always has his children praise him for their  well-being, but when the youngest refuses to  praise him she is banished from the house. On  the road to the great city, she meets—with pil -  grims and, finally, with robbers—the infamous  kamphas   of the Tibetan uplands. She sees that  even the wild robbers wear   malas,   long wooden  rosaries, around their necks. She tells them  that when they pray, and the sound is like that  of a cat purring, the sound will be heard in  heaven. They leave her behind, and during the  next night she sees a glow from under a nearby  rock. When she lifts the rock she finds a large  and beautiful turquoise. She takes it with her to  the city and at a fair displays it for onlookers.  The king hears of the turquoise, and he sends  his ministers to bring the girl to his court.  Once there, the queen tries on the turquoise  but becomes quite ill. The King’s daughter  experiences the same fate. An astrologer says,  “Only she who owns the necklace can wear it.”  In time the girl herself becomes queen. The  story ends with the closing formula, “The sun  of happiness shone on the mountaintop and the  staff of misery was washed away in the river.”  Gjallar-horn   (shrieking   horn)   In   Norse  mythology,   the   horn   of   the   god   Heimdall,  which will sound to announce the frost giants’  attack on the gods when the giants pass the  bridge Bifrost at Ragnarok, the end of the  world. The   Poetic Edda,   in the poem   Voluspa   (the  Sooth Saying of Vala), describes the scene:  To battle the gods are called By the ancient  Gjallar-horn. Loud blows Heimdall, His  sound is in the air.  Gjallar-horn was either hung on a branch  of Yggdrasill, the world tree, or placed in the  waters of Mimir’s well as a drinking horn,  where the lost eye of Odin lay.  See also:   bifrost; heimdall; mimir; odin;  poetic edda ; ragnarok; yggdrasil  Glass Mountain, The   This is the Russian  story of Ivan the Dragon Killer. In a far off  kingdom, a ferocious dragon takes up residence,  and under his feet the land begins to swell, first  4  4   Girdle of Venus

=== 페이지 432 ===
to a small hill, then to a larger hillock, and final -  ly a glass mountain dominated the countryside.  The czar sends his bravest warriors to over -  power the dragon, but all fail and never return.  The glass mountain continues to grow and now  occupies more than half the kingdom. One day  the dragon swoops down and carries away the  czar’s daughter and places her in a cave on the  mountain. In a neighboring kingdom, a young  czarevich, who has heard of the dragon and the  difficulties it is causing the czar, sets out to see  if he can help. Along the way he is bitten by an  ant that promises to help him if he will only  spare its life. The ant gives Ivan, as he is called,  a grain of wheat and tells him to place it at the  base of the glass mountain. Ivan introduces  himself to the czar and then rides to the moun -  tain, where he places the grain of wheat. Then  he hides in the nearby forest and watches as the  grain begins to grow. At first a mere droplet of  water appears on the wheat, but then it turns  into a trickle, and then into a stream of water,  and, finally, into a great torrent gushing from  the base of the mountain. When the dragon  flies down to observe what is happening, a wall  of water dashes the dragon to his death and  washes his body away. Ivan then rushes to the  mountain and rescues the daughter of the czar  and returns her to her father. In time, Ivan and  the princess are married, and Ivan inherits the  kingdom when the czar abdicates in his favor.  See also:   dragon  Glastonbury   In Arthurian legend, the place  where Joseph of Arimathea planted his staff. It  took root and burst into leaf every Christmas  Eve, and the tree is called the Glastonbury  Thorn. Glastonbury is a town in Somerset in  southwestern   England,   dating   from   Roman  times. King Arthur’s wife, Guinever, is said to  have been buried there.  See also:   arthur; guinever; joseph of ari -  mathea  Glaucus   (gray-green)   In Greek mythology,  the name of various men. One was the son of  Sisyphus and father of Bellerophon. He refused  to   let   his   mares   breed,   which   so   angered  Aphrodite, goddess of sexual love, that she  drove the mares mad. They tore Glaucus to  pieces at the funeral games of Pelias. Another  Glaucus was the grandson of Bellerophon. He  fought on the side of the Trojans, but when he  met Diomedes in battle, he laid down his spear  and exchanged his gold armor for Diomedes’  bronze armor on learning the two had family  ties. Glaucus appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (book 6)  and Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6). Another Glaucus  was an Argonaut and fisherman who wished  to live in the ocean. He was transformed into  a sea god by Oceanus. His story is in Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 13).  See also:   aeneid, the;   aphrodite; bellero -  phon; diomedes;   iliad, the;   sisyphus  Gluskap and Malsum   (Glooscap, Glooska,  Gluskabe)   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Abnaki), twin brothers; Gluskap, a creator  god, culture hero, and trickster killed his evil  brother Malsum.  Gluskap and Malsum discussed their birth  while still in their mother’s womb. “I will be  born as others are born,” said Gluskap. But  Malsum, being evil, said it was not proper that  he should be born as others were. He wished to  have an extraordinary birth. Gluskap was born  first in the natural manner, but Malsum forced  his way out of his mother’s armpit, killing her  as a result.  The two brothers grew up together. One  day Malsum asked Gluskap how he would be  killed, since Gluskap, as well as Malsum, pos -  sessed a charmed life. Gluskap, remembering  how Malsum had caused the death of their  mother, told a lie.  “I can be killed by the stroke of an owl’s  feather,” he told Malsum.  “I can die only by a blow from a large fern  root,” replied Malsum.  One day Malsum decided he would kill his  brother. He took his bow and arrow and shot  Ko-ko-khas, the owl, and with one of his feath -  Gluskap and Malsum   4  5

=== 페이지 433 ===
ers struck Gluskap while he was asleep. Glus -  kap awoke suddenly and said it was not by an  owl’s feather that he would die, but by a blow  from a pine root.  The next day Malsum led Gluskap into the  deep forest to hunt. After the hunt, while Glus -  kap slept, Malsum hit him on the head with a  pine root. Gluskap awoke and in anger chased  Malsum deeper into the woods. Gluskap then  came to a brook and said to himself, “Malsum  does not know, but only a flowering rush can  kill me.”  Beaver, who was hidden among the reeds,  heard Gluskap, and rushed to Malsum to tell  him the secret. In return for the secret Malsum  promised to give Beaver whatever he wanted.  When Beaver asked for wings like a pigeon,  Malsum laughed at him, and Beaver left in anger.  Beaver then went to Gluskap and told him what  had happened. Gluskap took a large-footed fern  and killed Malsum, driving his evil magic below  the earth. Malsum then became an evil wolf.  With Malsum out of the way and evil under -  ground, Gluskap created the world from the  body of his dead mother. He then took his bow  and arrows and shot at ash trees, and people  came out of the bark. Gluskap then made all  of the animals and taught humankind the arts.  But people were not grateful to Gluskap. This  saddened him until he could no longer endure  it. One day he made a feast by the shore. All of  the beasts came to it. When the feast was over  he boarded a great canoe and left. The beasts  could hear him sing, but his voice grew fainter  as the canoe moved on. Then a deep silence  fell on the animals. Until then they could all  understand one another’s language, but from  that time they could not, so each fled to his  home. One day Gluskap will return to restore  the earth and make people and animals live  together once more in peace and love.  See also:   ataensic; iouskeha and tawis -  caron  Gnosticism   During the first six centuries  of the Christian era, various sects attempted  to align Christianity with the speculations of  Greek philosophers. They considered them -  selves to be “knowers” rather than “believers.”  For them knowledge and not faith was the key  to salvation. Thus, Christ was looked upon as a  divine attribute that had been personified and  the stories associated with his life as reflections  of this attitude.  See   also:   abraxas;   flight   into   egypt;  heaven and hell  goat   A hollow-horned ruminant related to  the sheep family, the goat was sacred to Hera,  wife of Zeus in Greek mythology. Hera was  closely identified with the she-goat at Largos,  a center of her worship. There youths threw  spears at a she-goat during a religious festival  in honor of Hera. This rite was supposed to  punish the goat for revealing the hiding place  of Hera when once she fled to the woods to  escape Zeus’s anger.  The goat was also associated with Dionysus,  a son of Zeus and Semele. To protect his son  from Hera, Zeus transformed Dionysus into a  black goat, thereby making the animal sacred  to Dionysus, who was called “the Kid” or “one  of   the   black   goatskin.”   Dionysus’   followers  would tear to pieces a live goat and devour its  raw flesh. Euripides’   The Bacchae   captures their  joy and ecstasy. In one section the god’s fol -  lowers cry out: “Look, he comes.   .   .   . He hunts  the wild goat, killing it and tearing its raw flesh  for food.” Other Greek gods who shared the  goat as a symbol are Pan and Silenus, as well as  satyrs and fauns.  When one calls a man an “old goat,” it still  refers to the animal’s supposed lecherous nature.  In Hebrew mythology a goat was sacrificed to  Yahweh and called the scapegoat. Jesus in the  New Testament says God will separate the sheep  from the goats, meaning the good from the evil,  at the last judgment. The Nordic god Thor had  his wagon drawn by goats. Later medieval belief  often identified the goat with the devil. An old  superstition in England says that a goat is never  seen for a full 24 hours, because once a day he  4  6   Gnosticism

=== 페이지 434 ===
visits the devil to have his beard combed. There  are numerous motifs associated with goats in the  Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   dionysus; hera; pan; thor; yah -  weh; zeus  God and the Rising Waters   Jewish fable  found in the Midrash.   Once the waters on the  earth kept rising, reaching almost to God’s  throne. The Almighty said, “Be still.”  But the waters cried out: “We are the mighti -  est of all creation. Let us flood the earth.”  God   became   angry,   saying,   “I   will   send  sand on the earth and it will make a barrier to  contain you.”  When the waters saw the sand, they laughed.  “How can such tiny grains contain us?” the  waters said.  The sand grains, hearing the waters, became  frightened.   “How   are   we   to   survive?”   they  asked.  Their leader said, “Have no fear. True, we  are small and each one of us is insignificant.  But if we remain united, then the waters will  see how strong we are.”  When the sand grains heard this, they rose  up in mounds, hills and mountains, forming  a huge barrier against the waters. When the  waters saw how great an army the sand was,  they became frightened and retreated.  See also:   midrash  Godiva, Lady   (gift of God)   In English medi -  eval legend, patroness of Coventry. In 1040  Leofric, earl of Mercia and lord of Coventry,  imposed certain taxes on his tenants. His wife  Goat   (Konrad Gesner)  Godiva, Lady   4 

=== 페이지 435 ===
did not think the taxes were just. Leofric said he  would not remove them unless she rode naked  through   the   town   at   midday.   Lady   Godiva  accepted his challenge and rode through the  streets naked. Out of respect, everyone stayed  indoors, but a certain tailor peeped through  his window to see the lady pass and was struck  blind. He was then called “Peeping Tom of  Coventry.” Leofric removed the taxes as a result  of his wife’s ride. Tennyson’s poem “Godiva”  treats the subject.  Gog   and   Magog   In   medieval   British  mythology, two giants, the sole survivors of  a monstrous brood of children born to the  33   daughters   of   the   evil   Roman   emperor  Diocletian. The women murdered their hus -  bands. Gog and Magog were set adrift on a  ship   and   reached   Albion   (England),   where  they became friends of a group of demons.  Their   children   were   a   race   of   giants   who  fought the hero Brut and his companions. All  were destroyed except for Gog and Magog,  who were brought to London in chains. They  were made slaves and forced to act as porters  at the royal palace, on the site of the London  Guildhall. Statues of them can still be seen in  London today. In the Bible Gog and Magog  (Rev. 20:8) symbolize all of the future enemies  of   the   Kingdom   of   God.   Gogmagog   hill,  southeast   of   Cambridge,   received   its   name  from a giant who fell in love with the nymph  Granta. She would have nothing to do with  him and changed him into a hill.  See also:   albion; brut  Goin   In Australian mythology, an evil spirit  in the form of an old man with claws like an  eagle hawk and feet like an alligator.  See also:   bunyip  Golden Age   In Greek and Roman mytholo -  gy, the first of the Four Ages of Man, the others  being Silver, Bronze, and Iron. The Golden Age  first appears in Hesiod’s   Works and Days   and was  later developed by the Roman poets Horace,  Vergil, and Ovid. In Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book  1) a description that influenced later literature  is given of the Four Ages of Man. In English  literature, Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Spenser  cite the Golden Age. Shelley’s poem “Hellas”  says: “The world’s great age begins anew / The  golden years return.   .   .   .”  See also:   chaucer; hesiod; ovid  Golden   Apples   of   the   Hesperides   In  Greek mythology, Golden Apples guarded by  the Hesperides, daughters of Atlas and a drag -  on, Ladon. The Golden Apples grew on a tree  that was a gift to Hera when she married Zeus.  Heracles’ 11th labor was to fetch the apples.  When he did, the apples were given to Athena,  who returned them to the Hesperides because  they could not survive outside the magic gar -  den. Hesiod’s   Theogony,   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 4), and Tennyson’s poem   The Hesperides  recounts the myth.  See also:   athena; atlas; hera; hesiod; hes -  perides; ladon; ovid; zeus  golden   bough   In   Roman   mythology,   a  bough that the Trojan hero Aeneas obtains as  a passport to the underworld. In Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 6) Aeneas is told by the Cumaean Sybil  that he cannot enter the underworld until he  has found and broken off a golden bough and  offered it as a gift to Proserpine, queen of the  dead. The bough, identified as the mistletoe,  was associated with Diana at Aricia, near Rome.  According to some accounts, the golden bough  had to be broken off a sacred tree by a slave,  who then killed the priest-king guarding the  tree and took his place, eventually to be killed in  the same manner. This interpretation, given by  Servius (fourth century   c.e. ) in his commentary  on Vergil’s   Aeneid,   inspired the monumental  12-volume study   The Golden Bough   by Sir James  Frazer. Frazer opens his work with the ritual  surrounding the slaying of the priest-king of  Diana in a grove near Nemi and then goes on  to explain ancient rituals, beliefs, and customs  relating to magic, kingship, divinity, tree wor -  4    Gog and Magog

=== 페이지 436 ===
ship, taboos, totemism, rain, fire, and so on.  Frazer’s basic assumption is that all peoples have  gone through the same cultural development  and thus react in the same way. (This aspect  of his work is now debated.) Frazer’s chapters  dealing with the Dying God had great influence  on early 20th-century thinking and art. Among  classical   scholars,   Gilbert   Murray   and   Jane  Harrison are in his debt. Creative artists such  as T. S. Eliot and D. H. Lawrence also were  influenced by his ideas, as was Freud in his   Totem  and Tabu.   Other works by Frazer are   Totemism  and Exogamy, The Belief in Immortality and the  Worship of the Dead, Folklore in the Old Testament,  The Worship of Nature, Myths of the Origin of Fire,  and   The Fear of the Dead in Primitive Religion.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   diana; mis -  tletoe  Golden City, The   A princess in Armenia  visited the Golden City in search of the sorcerer  prince Habërmani. There she met the daughter  of a witch who was guarding Habërmani, and  who was getting water from a well. When the  princess asked the young girl if she knew where  to find Habërmani, she learned that he was in  that very city. Unfortunately, he had suffered  from a vile fever for the past seven years. Then  the princess asked the girl for a drink from the  pitcher of water and as she drank, the princess  secretly slipped her wedding ring into the water.  The girl took the water to Habërmani and when  he found the ring, he was immediately cured of  his fever. Habërmani then had the princess  brought from the well, and they were reunited,  but they still had to escape the witch.  See also:   habërmani  Golden Cockerel, Tale of the   Literary  folk verse tale by Alexander Pushkin, published  in 1833. Pushkin’s verse uses the forms of  Russian folk poetry to create a satirical folktale.  An astrologer gave Czar Dodon a golden cock -  erel that had the gift of prophecy. When the  bird crowed, it was a sign that danger was near.  One day the Golden Cockerel crowed as the  astrologer came to ask payment for the magi -  cal bird. King Dodon, responding to the bird’s  warning, killed the astrologer. Dodon, how -  ever, was then killed by the Golden Cockerel.  Pushkin’s satirical verse tale was believed  to have been based on a Russian folktale, and  numerous anthologies that include the poet’s  work contain a note to that effect. However,  in 1933 the source for Pushkin’s tale was found  in Washington Irving’s well-known book   The  Legends of the Alhambra,   which Pushkin read in  a French translation published in the same year  as the English original. The poet took the tales  “The House of the Weathercock” and “The  Legend of the Arabian Astrologer” as the bases  for his poem. Pushkin’s poem was used by the  Russian   composer   Rimsky-Korsakov   for   his  opera   Le coq d’or   ( The Golden Cockerel ).  Golden   Fleece   In Greek mythology, the  fleece of the winged ram stolen by the hero  Jason with the aid of his mistress, Medea. The  myth tells how Nephele, wife of King Athamas  of Boeotia, convinced the king that his son  Phrixus was responsible for a famine and had  to be sacrificed to the gods. Phrixus, learning of  the plan, fled with his sister Helle on the gold -  en-winged ram. During the flight Helle fell in  the water and drowned, but Phrixus reached  Colchis. He married Chalciope, daughter of  Aetks, and sacrificed the ram. Its fleece was  then hung in a sacred grove in Colchis and  guarded by a dragon. Jason, with Medea’s aid,  later   stole   the   Golden   Fleece.   Apollonius’s  Argonautica   tells the tale of Jason, Medea, and  the quest, as does William Morris’s   Life and  Death of Jason,   a long narrative poem, and  Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “Golden Fleece” in his  children’s book   Tanglewood Tales.  See also:   apollonius; jason; medea  Golden   Legend,   The   ( Legenda Aurea )   In  medieval   Christianity,   collection   of   saints’  lives and stories associated with the Christian  year;   compiled   and   written   by   Jacobus   de  Voragine, archbishop of Genoa (1230–1298).  Golden Legend, The   4 

=== 페이지 437 ===
From earliest Christian times the compiling of  saints’ lives has been one of the main sources  of Christian art and legends. The primary  works include martyrologies (lists of martyred  saints), passions, calendars, biographies, prose  and verse compositions, and liturgical texts.  One of the first collections of saints’ lives was  compiled by Eusebius (c. 260–340), the church  historian. His work, however, was lost. In the  10th century Symeon the Metaphrast rewrote,  in elegant and refined Greek, a series of saints’  lives based on earlier sources. In 1660 the  Martyr’s Mirror   included hundreds of stories  of Anabaptist martyrs. The most influential  work, however, was and remains   The Golden  Legend.   There are more than 500 manuscripts  of the work in existence. The first century of  printing produced more than 150 editions and  translations. William Caxton, the first English  printer, produced an English version in the  15th century. The popularity of   The Golden  Legend   diminished during the Renaissance and  Reformation, because the humanists disliked  its “gutter Latin,” and Protestants objected to  its acceptance of fantasy.  Golden   Mountain,   The   This   is   the  Ukrainian version of the story of Grishka and  the Mountain of Gold. A merchant’s son grows  up in luxury and never has to work for his liv -  ing. When his father dies, the young man has  already squandered his father’s fortune, and he  has to look for work. He places himself with his  spade in his hand at the village market where  other young men seek work, but when a golden  carriage arrives, all of the others run away and  leave him alone. A wealthy merchant offers him  work, and the young man climbs into the coach,  rides with the merchant down to the sea, and  boards a golden ship. They sail together to an  island where there is a large golden mansion at  the foot of a large golden mountain. All day long  the young man helps unload the ship, and in the  evening he is invited by the wealthy merchant to  dine with him and his daughter. After the meal,  the merchant’s daughter calls to her father, who  immediately leaves the room through one door  while she entered through another. She rushes  to the young man and quickly puts a tinderbox  in his hand, telling him if he ever needs help, he  should just tap on the box. The father returns  and pours out two glasses of wine, one of which  he drugs. No sooner has the young man drunk  the wine than he falls into a deep sleep. The  merchant takes him out to the stable, where  he hitches up a cart with two strong horses  and then kills a third, an old nag, cleans out its  insides, and pushes the young man along with  his spade into the carcass of the horse. This he  then loads onto the cart and drives to the foot  of the golden mountain. He unloads the nag’s  carcass, puts his other two horses out to graze,  and hides behind some bushes. Soon a flock of  ravens swoops down, carries the carcass to the  top of the mountain, and begins to devour it.  At daybreak they are just beginning to peck at  the young man, when the merchant comes out  of hiding and calls up to him that he should  dig gold all day, let it roll and slide down the  mountain, and in the evening he will tell him  how he can get down. When the time comes,  the young man can see the merchant hitching  up his horses and riding away. The ravens came  back and are about to devour him when he  remembers the tinderbox. He taps on it and two  Cossacks appear and ask what he desires. All he  can think of is going home to his own village,  and suddenly he finds himself in the deserted  market square where this adventure began. He  lives happily, but soon needs work and returned  to the square where the wealthy merchant had  picked him up before. Again he goes with the  merchant to the mansion, again he dines with  him, but while the merchant is out of the room,  the young man switches the wine glasses. The  drugged merchant is then sewed up with a spade  in the carcass of an old nag, taken to the golden  mountain, and laid out for the ravens. They take  him to the top and begin to peck away the car -  cass of the horse. After he is exposed, the young  man calls up to him that he should work, roll the  gold down the mountainside, and in the evening  420   Golden Mountain, The

=== 페이지 438 ===
he will be given directions to come down. This  time the young man drives away and leaves the  old man on the mountaintop. He then takes the  merchant’s place, marries his daughter, and lives  happily, but he never employs any young men to  mine gold for him from the Golden Mountain.  Golden Stool, The   In African cult, a sym -  bol sacred to the Ashanti of Ghana. During  the 18th century Osei Tutu, one of the rulers  of the Ashanti, united his people and formed  a powerful nation. Previously, they had been  dominated by a neighboring tribe. Anokye, a  ruler of that tribe, offended his king and left  the country. He came to the Ashanti, saying  that the god Onyame had sent him to them so  that they would become a great nation. With  great fanfare Anokye brought down from the  heavens a stool covered with gold, which came  to rest on Osei Tutu’s knees. The king was so  pleased with it that he had four bells made to  hang from its corners. Anokye said that the  stool was a physical manifestation of the soul  of the Ashanti people. A magic potion, made  of the hairs and fingernails of members of the  Ashanti royalty, was drunk, and what remained  was poured over the stool. No one was per -  mitted to sit on the stool, although the king  might pretend to and even rest his arm on it.  Once a year the stool was carried through the  streets under large ceremonial umbrellas in a  great procession. Over the years golden items  were added to the stool to commemorate very  special events.  In 1896 the Ashanti feared that the British,  who since 1750 had held a monopoly over the  Gold Coast, would destroy the golden stool.  When Sir Frederic Hodgon demanded that  the stool be brought to him so that he might  sit on it, a bloody revolt ensued. The stool  disappeared and was not seen again until 1921.  While building a road, some men came upon  the spot where the stool was hidden, and it was  moved to a new location. Thieves discovered  it and stole the gold from the stool, but when  they tried to sell it, they were caught and jailed.  They had to be guarded very carefully lest they  be seized and killed. The authorities, recogniz -  ing the significance of the stool, restored it to  the royal palace in Kumasi.  goldfinch   A bird with a yellow patch on  each wing; in medieval Christian symbolism,  the Passion of Christ. According to medieval  Christian   belief   the   goldfinch   eats   thistles  and thorns, two symbols of Christ’s Passion.  In Renaissance paintings one often finds the  Christ child holding a goldfinch, indicating his  future suffering and death.  Goldilocks and the Three Bears   Literary  folktale by Robert Southey, first appearing in  The Doctor   (1834–1847), a miscellany. A girl,  Goldilocks, enters the three bears’ house in the  woods. She tries three chairs, one is too hard,  one too soft, and one just right. She then eats  three bowls of porridge (one too hot, one too  cold, and one just right), and tries out three  beds, falling asleep in the smallest. When the  bears return, the girl is chased out. Southey  may have based his version on a tale by the  Grimms,   Schneewittchen   (tale type 709).  See also:   grimm brothers; tale type  golem   (shapeless mass)   In medieval Jewish  folklore, a form given life when the mystical  name of God was placed upon it. One medi -  eval legend tells how the poet and philosopher  Solomon Ibn Gabirol of Valencia created a  golem maid. When the Christian king heard  of the creature, he ordered Solomon killed for  practicing black magic. However, the poet-phi -  losopher proved that the creature was harmless  by removing the name of God from it and  having it then turn to dust. In a later tale,   The  Golem of Chem,   the creature proves too much  for its creator, Rabbi Elijah, who removed the  magical name of God from the monster when it  went on a destructive rampage. In later rework -  ings of the legends, such as   The Golem of Prague,  the monster becomes a defender of the Jews. In  Yiddish, however, the word golem is used for a  golem   42 

=== 페이지 439 ===
422   Golem  David and Goliath   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 440 ===
stupid person. The term   golem   appears in the  Hebrew Scriptures in Psalm 139:16: “Thine  eyed did see mine golem [shapeless mass].”  The Jewish Publications translation of 1917  renders the term as “unformed substance.”  Goliath   (an   exile)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,   a  Philistine giant who was slain by the stripling  David. Goliath was nine feet, nine inches tall  (1 Sam. 17: 23–54). In Islamic legend Goliath  is called Jalut and cited in the Koran (sura  2). In Western art Goliath is often shown  decapitated at David’s feet or being held by the  young David.  Gollveig   (gold might)   In Norse mythology,  a Vanir goddess. She came to the Aesir gods  and was mistreated by them, but the exact  details are not known. Gollveig was in part  responsible for a war between the Vanir and  the Aesir deities. In some accounts her name is  given as Heid.  See also:   aesir; aesir-vanir war; vanir  González, Conde Fernán   (c. 930–970)   In  medieval Spanish legend, count of Burgos who  made Castile independent of the state of León.  He is the subject of numerous heroic ballads  and the 13th-century narrative poem   El poema  de Fernán González.  Both González and his wife, Sancha, often  appear in Spanish ballads. According to various  legends, Sancha rescued the count twice at the  risk of her own life. The count had asked her  hand in marriage from her father, Garcias, king  of Navarre. On his way to join his bride the  count was ambushed by men of the queen of  León, who was the sister of the king of Navarre  and opposed the match. The count was taken to  a castle and imprisoned. Then a “pilgrim knight  of Normandy,” riding through Navarre, came to  the castle where the count was imprisoned and  later told his intended wife, Sancha, of the deep  love the count held for her. In the ballad   The  Escape of Count Fernán González   the knight says:  González loves thee, lady,—he loved thee  long ago,—  Arise, let love with love be paid, and set  González free (John Gibson Lockhart  translation).  Sancha, moved by his words, bribed the  jailer and fled with the count to Castile. Many  years later, according to another legend, the  count was again freed by his wife after he was  ambushed by the men of the queen of León.  This time Sancha, feigning a pilgrimage to  Compostela to visit the tomb of St. James the  Greater, passed the night in the castle where  her   husband   was   being   held   prisoner.   She  exchanged her clothes for his, and he escaped.  El Poema de Fernán González,   believed to  have been written by a monk of the Castilian  monastery of San Pedro de Aslanza in the 13th  century, recounts the history of Spain up to the  birth of Fernán González and then relates the  exploits of the hero.  See also:   ballad  Go-oh   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Iroquois), the spirit of the winds who lives  in the north sky. He controls all four winds; the  bear, north wind; the panther, west wind; the  moose, east wind; and the fawn, south wind.  When the north wind blows, the Iroquois say,  “The bear is prowling in the sky.” If the west  wind is violent, they say, “The panther is whin -  ing.” When the east wind chills with its rain,  they say, “The moose is spreading his breath,”  and when the south wind wafts soft breezes,  they say, “The fawn is returning to its doe.”  Goonnear   In Australian mythology, the evil  carpet snake. He is the opposite of the wombat  snake, Biggarro, who aids man to the spirit land,  the Land of Perfection.  See also:   biggarro  goose   Large   web-footed   bird,   connected  with numerous deities in world mythology as  goose   423

=== 페이지 441 ===
a symbol of fertility, watchfulness, war, love,  autumn, and the sun. The goose is sacred to  various   Egyptian   deities   such   as   Amun-Ra,  Isis, Geb, Osis, Osiris, and Horus. Amun-Ra is  sometimes called “The Great Grackler” in ref -  erence to his role as creator of the world when  he laid the Cosmic Egg. In Greek mythology,  the goose is sacred to Hera as queen of heaven,  to Apollo as sun god, Ares as war god, and Eros  as god of love and sex. According to Roman  legend, when Rome was being invaded, the  sacred geese in Juno’s temple began to cackle  when they spotted the enemy. They were killed  by enemy soldiers but not before the Romans  had been warned of the invasion. Later a golden  goose was carried in procession in honor of the  geese. The goose is sacred not only to Juno but  to Mars as war god and Priapus as fertility god.  In Chinese mythology the goose is the bird  of heaven, symbol of Yang, the male principle.  In Japanese mythology the goose is a symbol of  autumn, associated with the autumn moon. Wild  geese are sacred to Brahma in Hindu mythology;  he is often shown riding a magnificent gander.  In European Christian folklore, the English  custom of eating the goose on St. Michael’s  Day is sometimes said to have originated in  the time of Elizabeth I, who on St. Michael’s  Day received news of the defeat of the Span -  ish Armada while she was eating goose. But  the story is apocryphal because the custom of  eating goose can be traced back to the 15th  century in England, when Edward IV ate the  fat goose to augur the termination of the rainy  and wintry season. Perhaps the best-known  Aesop fable about a goose is “The Goose That  Laid the Golden Egg,” which has given rise to  the saying, “kill the goose that lays the golden  egg,” whenever people’s greed alienates those  who are generous to them. Another expres -  sion, “cook a person’s goose,” refers to the  European legend of Eric, king of Sweden, who  approached an enemy city and found a dead  goose hung over one of its walls in derision of  his invasion. As he set the town to torch, he is  reported to have said, “I’m cooking the goose.”  There are numerous motifs associated with the  goose in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See   also:   aesopic fables; apollo; ares;  brahma; eros; geb; goose that laid the  golden egg, the; hera; horus; juno; isis;  osiris; priapus; yang  Goose That Laid the Golden Eggs, The  Aesopic fable that appears in European and  Oriental sources, probably originally Indian  because it appears in the   Jatakas, or Birth-  Stories of the Former Lives of the Buddha.  A farmer went to the nest of his goose to see  whether she had laid an egg. To his surprise he  found, instead of an ordinary goose egg, an egg  of solid gold. Seizing the golden egg, he rushed  to the house in great excitement to show it to  his wife.  Every day thereafter the goose laid an egg  of pure gold. But as the farmer grew rich, he  grew greedy. And thinking that if he killed the  goose he could have all of her treasure at once,  he cut her open, only to find nothing at all.  Moral:   The greedy who want more, lose all.  See also:   aesopic fables;   jataka  Gorboduc   In   British   mythology,   a   king,  father of Ferrex and Porrex; he divided his  kingdom between them. Ferrex was driven out  of the land by his brother; when he attempted  to return, he was killed. Porrex was later mur -  dered by his mother, who had favored Ferrex.  Gorboduc,   written   by   Thomas   Norton   and  Thomas Sackville, is the first English historical  drama.  Gordian Knot   In Greek and Roman leg -  end, a knot tied by a peasant named Gordius,  the   father   of   Midas,   who   became   king   of  Phrygia. The knot was so complex that no  one could unravel it nor even find the ends of  the cord entwined within the knot. Gordius  had dedicated his oxcart or chariot to Zeus,  with the yoke tied to the pole in a knot. An  oracle decreed that anyone who could unravel  it would rule Asia. Alexander the Great cut it  424   Goose That Laid the Golden Eggs, The

=== 페이지 442 ===
The Hen with the Golden Eggs   (Gustave Doré)  Gordian Knot   425

=== 페이지 443 ===
with his sword, fulfilling the oracle. Purcell’s  incidental music to   The Gordian Knot Untied  was written for a play now lost.  See also:   alexander the great; midas; zeus  Gore   (misery)   In Slavic folklore, personifica -  tion of misery and misfortune. Gore is described  in one Russian folktale as a “wretched little man,  with a miserable face and little thin legs and  arms.” According to the folktale, a merchant  who had lost all his property because of Gore  decided to do away with him. He asked Gore if  he could make himself small enough to fit into  the hub of a wheel. Angry at being challenged,  Gore popped into the hole of the hub, and the  merchant instantly shut Gore inside. (This kind  of trickery is a common motif in folktales.) The  merchant then took the wheel to the river and  drowned Gore. With Gore’s death, the mer -  chant was restored to his former prosperity.  See also:   trickster  Gorgons   (grim ones)   In Greek mythology,  three women monsters, the Euryae; daughters  of Ceto and Phorcys, they are Euryale, Stheno,  and Medusa. They had women’s bodies, wings,  brazen claws, and snakes for hair. They were  sisters to the Graeae, three gray-haired old  women who acted as their sentries. Euryale and  Stheno were immortal and could not die, but  Medusa was not and was beheaded by the hero  Perseus. Her head was on the aegis or cloak of  Zeus and Athena, and the sight of it could turn  a person into stone. In Shakespeare’s   Macbeth  (2.3)   at   the   discovery   of   Duncan’s   murder,  Macduff   says:   “Approach   the   chamber,   and  destroy your sight / with a new Gorgon.”  See also:   athena; graeae; perseus; zeus  Gotham, Wise Men of   In British medieval  legend, a term for “wise fools.” King John, on  his way to Lyme Regis, intended to pass through  Gotham in Nottinghamshire with his army. To  prepare he sent heralds to announce he was com -  ing. The men of Gotham did not want to see the  king or his army because it meant that the land  would be devastated and they would be forced to  provide quarters for the soldiers. They decided  to play fools. Some pretended to rake the moon  out of a pond, some made a ring to hedge in a  bird, and so on. When the king learned of their  actions, he abandoned his intention of stopping  in the village. One wise man remarked, “We  ween there are more fools pass through Gotham  426   Gore  A Gorgon  Medusa

=== 페이지 444 ===
than   remain   in   it.”   A   collection   of   popular  tales called   Merie tales of the Mad Men of Gotam  was published during the reign of Henry VIII.  Washington Irving gave the name Gotham to  New York City in his   Salmagundi Papers.   There  are localities around the world where fools are  to be found: Phrygia in Asia Minor, Boeotia in  Greece, Nazareth for the Jews, and Swabia and  the East Frisian islands in modern Germany.  Govannon   (smithy)   In   Celtic   mythology,  the British god of smithery, son of Don, brother  of Gwydion. Govannon made weapons for the  gods and brewed ale. He is best remembered as  the uncle who kills his nephew Dylan. Ancient  Roman writers equated him with their god  Vulcan. In later medieval legend he appears  as Gobhan Saer, an architect of magic power  who is credited with building many towers and  churches in Ireland.  See also:   dylan; vulcan  Go-vardhana   In Hindu mythology, a sacred  mountain on which Krishna (an incarnation  of the god Vishnu) ordered the cowherds to  worship him instead of Indra, the storm god.  This so enraged Indra that he sent a deluge to  wash away the mountain as well as the people.  Krishna, however, held up the mountain with  his little finger for seven days to shelter the  people. Indra left baffled and afterward did  homage to Krishna, who was called Go-vard -  hana Dhara (upholder of Go-vardhana).  See also:   krishna; vishnu  Gracchi   (grackles)   In   Roman   mythology,  the name given in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6) to  the spirits or souls of unborn Roman heroes.  In Roman history, above all they are two broth -  ers   named   Tiberius   and   Gaius   Sempronius  Gracchus who instigated social and political  reforms in the 130s and 120s   b.c.e.,   as a result  of which they were each killed; they were usu -  ally portrayed as symbols of catering to the  mob, but sometimes of genuine reform.  See also:   aeneid, the  Graeae   (gray   ones)   In   Greek   mythology,  daughters of Phorcys and Cero; sisters of the  Gorgons. The Graeae were Dino, Enyo, and  Pephredo. They had only one tooth and one eye  to share among themselves. The eye was stolen  by the hero Perseus as they passed it from one to  another. He would not give it back to them until  they told him where Medusa was hiding.  See also:   gorgons; perseus  Grand Bois d’Ilet   In Haitian voodoo, lord  of the night and night forests.  Gran Maître   In Haitian voodoo, the creator  god, distinct from the loas, who are deified  spirits of the dead and looked upon as gods.  See also:   loa  Grannos   In   Celtic   mythology,   a   god   of  healing worshipped by the continental Celts.  Ancient Roman writers equated Grannos with  either Aesculapius, their god of medicine, or  Apollo. Several localities in France are named  after Grannos, such as Aix-la-Chapelle (Aquae  Granni), Graux, and Eaux Graunnes.  See also:   apollo; asclepius  grape   A   berry   used   for   making   wine.   In  Greek mythology, the grape was associated with  Dionysus, whose worship involved sexual rites  assisted by wine as an intoxicant. In the Old  Testament, Noah is credited with inventing wine  and getting drunk (Gen. 9:20–21). In the New  Testament, Jesus used wine as part of the ritual  around the Holy Eucharist, the other element  being bread. Jesus drank wine (Matt. 11:19), and  at the marriage feast at Cana (John 2:1–11), his  first recorded miracle, he turned water into wine  to replenish the supply for the feast. In Christian  art the Holy Eucharist is sometimes symbolized  by bunches of grapes with ears of wheat.  See also:   dionysus; noah  grasshopper   Any of numerous insects hav -  ing hind legs used for leaping. In Egyptian  mythology the grasshopper was associated with  grasshopper   42 

=== 페이지 445 ===
happiness.   In   The   Book   of   the   Dead   the  deceased is to say: “I have rested in the field of  grasshoppers.” Another ancient Egyptian text  tells how the pharaoh will “arrive in heaven  like the grasshopper of Ra,” the sun god. In  ancient Hebrew belief the grasshopper symbol -  izes a scourge. In Aesop’s fable “The Ant and  Grasshopper,” the creature is depicted as a fool  who does not plan for his life, thus symbolizing  irresponsibility. But in Greek belief the crea -  ture also symbolized nobility. In Chinese folk  belief, abundance, good luck, and numerous  sons are symbolized by the grasshopper.  See also:   aesopic fables; ant and the grass -  hopper, the; book of the dead; pharaoh; ra  Great Carbuncle   In American folklore, a  large,   magnificent   stone   with   extraordinary  brightness and power. Nathaniel Hawthorne’s  “The   Great   Carbuncle,”   included   in   Twice  Told Tales,   is based on the legend, which the  author says is founded on “Indian tradition.” In  Hawthorne’s telling, an alchemist, a merchant,  and a cynic go in pursuit of the gem, only to be  frustrated. A young couple also go in pursuit of  the magnificent stone but come to realize what  happiness they have and reject it. When they  do, the author says the splendor of the gem  waned. The motif of an incandescent jewel is  widely found in folk literature.  See also:   motif  Great Goddess/Great Mother Goddess  Prehistoric female deity. Numerous goddesses  are recognized through figurines from Stone  Age Europe and from 7th and 6th millennia  Anatolia. Fertility attributes include large hips,  protruding bellies, and pendulous breasts, with  some emphasizing sexual characteristics rather  than pregnancy. A near-universal cult of the  Mother Goddess declined when urban civiliza -  tion developed. The divine figure may have  had its beginning in ancient Anatolia and is  often portrayed with various felines, leopards  and lions in particular. Her male partner is  portrayed as a bull. Throughout the Near East  many goddesses may have evolved from this  earlier figure.  See   also:   aruru; damkina; devi; etana;  inanna; kali; kumara-sambhava; sati; shiva;  tammuz; telepinus; yoni  Great Stone Face, The   In American folk -  lore, a mountain that resembled a face, said  by the Indians to be that of Manitou, one of  their main gods; according to white settlers,  the New Hampshire mountain was the face  of Daniel Webster. Its power is displayed in  Hawthorne’s short story, “The Great Face,” in  The Snow Image and Other Twice-Told Tales.   The  Great Stone Face, also known as The Old Man  of the Mountain, collapsed in 2003.  Grede   In Haitian voodoo, god of the dead,  who is lord of life as well. In the chamber dedi -  cated to his worship a sculptured phallus lies next  to a gravedigger’s tools. His symbol is the cross.  Gregory the Great, St.   (watchman)   (Died  604)   In Christian legend, pope, Doctor of  the Church. Patron saint of fringe makers,  masons, musicians, scholars, singers, students,  and teachers. Invoked against gout, plague, and  sterility. Feast, 12 March.  Gregory, the first monk to be made pope,  was noted for his learning, kindness, and char -  ity. He sent St. Augustine (not to be confused  with the St. Augustine who wrote the   Confes -  sions ) to Canterbury to convert the English.  He reformed church music and wrote numer -  ous works on sacred subjects. The Gregorian  chant, which he was popularly believed to have  originated, was named in his honor.  He appears in numerous legends from the  Middle Ages. One legend tells how John the  Deacon, his secretary and biographer, saw the  Holy Ghost in the form of a dove perched on  the shoulder of Gregory whenever he dictated  his sermons or books. Another legend tells  how the Archangel Michael, responding to the  prayers of St. Gregory, stopped a plague that  was threatening to destroy Rome. The legend  42    Great Carbuncle

=== 페이지 446 ===
Introduction   42   The Mass of St. Gregory   (Albrecht Dürer)

=== 페이지 447 ===
of the Supper of St. Gregory tells how 12 poor  men came to dine every evening with Gregory.  One evening a 13th appeared. After dinner  Gregory asked the man who he was. The man  replied, “I am the poor man whom thou didst  formerly relieve, but my name is Wonderful,  and through me thou shall obtain whatever  thou shalt ask of God.” Gregory then knew  that he had been visited by an angel.  The Mass of St. Gregory is the name given  to the most famous legend associated with the  saint. Once there was a man who doubted that  Christ was present at the altar during the Mass.  When St. Gregory heard this, he prayed that  Christ would make known to the man his real  presence at the altar. Suddenly, Christ appeared  with the instruments of his Passion on the altar.  In another account, when Gregory elevated the  sacred Host, it began to bleed, convincing the  man that truly this was the body of Christ.  The miracle of the Brandeum, similar in  some ways to the previous miracle, concerns a  relic of St. John the Evangelist, the Brandeum,  or consecrated cloth. It was sent to the empress  Constantia and was rejected by her with con -  tempt. To show her that faith was more impor -  tant than relics, St. Gregory laid the Brandeum  on the altar. After praying, he took up a knife  and pierced it, and blood flowed from it as if it  were a living body.  Another legend in medieval folklore tells of  the prayers of the saint for the soul of the pagan  emperor Trajan. As told by Brunetto Latini,  the teacher of Dante, the legend maintains  that by Gregory’s prayers the pagen emperor  entered heaven.  In   The Divine Comedy   (Purgatory, canto 10)  Dante makes reference to this legend and says  that the soul of the emperor was placed in the  heaven of Jupiter among the spirits of those  who loved and exercised justice.  See also:   augustine, st.; john the evange -  list, st.  gremlins   In American folklore of World War  II, elves about 20 inches tall who wear green  breeches, red jackets with ruffles, and top hats  and spats and who cause mischief on aircraft.  U.S. airmen used the term to account for any  mechanical difficulty. The phrase was coined by  an R.A.F. squadron command serving in India.  It is compounded from Grimms’   Fairy Tales,   the  only book available to the flyers, and Fremlin,  the only beer available. It appears for the first  time in print in Charles Graves’s   Thin Blue Line  (1941), a documentary of the war years.  Grettir the Strong   Medieval Icelandic saga,  believed to have been written in the 11th cen -  tury. Grettir was the second son of Asmund  and Asdis. His mother favored the boy, but his  father took a dislike to him, since he constantly  got into trouble. After Grettir slew Skegg in a  quarrel about a lost meal bag, he was ordered  into three years’ banishment. He was given  a sword by his mother and placed on a boat,  Haflidi,   which was wrecked on the island of  Havamsey. Here Grettir remained for some  time with its chief, Thorfinn. One evening he  saw a fire break out from a mound, and believ -  ing that the mound concealed some treasure,  he went the next morning to dig. The mound  was known as the grave of Old Karr, Thorfinn’s  father. Working all day and night, he finally  came to the treasure and was about to take it  when the dead body of Old Karr awoke. A fight  began, and Grettir cut off Karr’s head and made  sure it was laid at the thigh of the dead man so  that he could not come to life again. He took  the treasure and gave all of it except for a short  sword to Thorfinn, until he had done some  great deed. In a short time he accomplished the  deed by killing at Christmas a group of thieves  who had come to rob Thorfinn.  After numerous other adventures and mur -  ders, Grettir became an outlaw. He was finally  killed by a man named Thorbiorn Angle, who  found Grettir in a hut asleep after having been  wounded by the witch Thurid. Thorbiorn, after  a battle with Grettir, seized his short sword and  cut off his head. Later Thorbiorn Angle was  killed by Grettir’s brother, Thorstein Dromond.  430   gremlins

=== 페이지 448 ===
griffin   (Gryphon)   In   European   and   Near  Eastern mythology and folklore, a fantastic  animal with the head and wings of an eagle,  the body of a lion, and sometimes the tail of  a serpent. Griffins drew the chariots of Zeus,  called   the   Hounds   of   Zeus,   and   those   of  Apollo and Nemesis. They guarded the gold  and fought with the Arimaspians, a Scythian  people who had only one eye. In the Bible, the  Cherubim who guard the gate to the Garden  of Eden were griffinlike beings as well as those  that guarded the Ark of the Covenant. During  the Christian Middle Ages numerous legends  about griffins concerned the magical properties  inherent in their claws. So-called griffin claws,  usually antelope horns, were made into drink -  ing cups in the belief that they would change  color in the presence of poison. In an Italian  medieval bestiary the griffin is symbolic of the  devil, but in general the griffin was seen as a  symbol of Christ, who was like a lion because  he reigned as king and like an eagle because of  his Resurrection. Most Dante scholars see the  griffin in Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Purgatory,  canto 29) as a symbol of Christ.  See also:   apollo; arismaspi; ark of the  covenant; cherubim; zeus  Grimhild   In Norse mythology, wife of Giuki;  queen of the Nibelungs, or Burgundians. She  used a magic potion to make Sigurd (Siegfried)  fall in love with her daughter Gudrun. Grimhild  appears in the   Volsunga Saga,   and in Richard  Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen   she is the  mother   of   Gunther   and   Gutrune   by   King  Giuki and mother of Hagen by Alberich, the  evil dwarf.  See also:   alberich; hagen; nibelungs;   ring  des nibelungen, der ; sigurd  Grimm   Brothers   (Jacob   Ludwig   Karl,  1785–1863,   and   William   Karl,   1786–1859)  Compilers of   Kinder-und Hausmärchen   (1812–  1815), a collection of German folktales, often  called “Grimms’ Fairy Tales,” but also known  as   Household Tales.   Born in Hesse, Germany,  Jacob and William were librarians by profes -  sion, as well as linguists, folklorists, scholars,  and teachers. When their land was threatened  by a French invasion under Napoleon, they  began to collect folklore and folktales around  nearby Hessian villages. Most of their tales were  written down from retellings by neighbors and  friends, or were sent in to them in written form.  Their best-known informant was a woman by  the name of Katharine Dorothea Viehmann,  the wife of a local tailor, who told them more  than 20 tales.Their most famous collection is  the   Kinder- und Hausmärchen,   which includes  such well-known folktales as “The Frog King  of Iron Henry,” “Faithful John,” “Rapunzel,”  “Hansel   and   Gretel,”   “Little   Red   Riding  Hood,” “The White Snake,” “The Fisherman  and His Wife,” “Clever Hans,” “The Juniper  Tree,” “Snow White,” “Rumpelstiltskin,” “The  Golden Goose,” and “Snow White and Rose  Red.” Present-day scholars are well aware of  the origins and the process of rewriting of  Grimm Brothers   43   Griffin

=== 페이지 449 ===
the folktales by the Grimms. Thus, some see  them as literary rather than as folk products.  Because of the extensive rewriting of the tales  few consider them to be authentic folktales.  Other   works   produced   by   the   pair   include  German   Heroic   Tales   (1829);   a   collection   of  legends;   Teutonic Mythology   (1835), a long, four-  volume work on German myth and legend;  and a multi-volume   Dictionary of the German  Language.   On the occasion of the bicentennial  of their birth, in the mid-1980s, a very large  number   of   scholarly   works   appeared   which  dealt with the tales. The best-known German  scholar, Heinz Rölleke, has worked extensively  with their original manuscripts and with their  daily calendars to document who their primary  informants were.  See also:   little red riding hood; rumpel -  stiltskin; sleeping beauty  Grisilda   (stone heroine, gray battlemaid)   In  medieval European legend, a symbol of patience  and   obedience.   She   is   often   referred   to   as  “Patient Grisel.” Grisilda, the daughter of a  Grimm Brothers   (Ludwig Emil Grimm)  432   Grisilda

=== 페이지 450 ===
charcoal burner, married Walter, marquis of  Saluzzo. Her husband spent most of his time  testing his wife to see if she would obey him and  be faithful. He took away her two children and  told her they were murdered. Then he divorced  her and sent her home, saying he was about to  marry another woman. Finally, he stopped the  cruel joking. The tale is told by Chaucer in   The  Canterbury Tales   as “The Clerk’s Tale.” Chaucer  based it on Boccaccio’s version in   The Decameron.  Boccaccio’s source was a French folk tale.  See also:   chaucer  Gu   In African mythology (Fon of Benin),  god of metal; patron of blacksmiths, inventor  of all crafts, identified with iron, and guardian  of hunters and warriors. In some accounts Gu is  conceived of as a metal weapon wielded by the  bisexual creator god, Mawu Lisa, to clear the  earth and make it habitable for humankind.  See also:   ogun onire; mawu lisa  Guagugiana   (Guaguyona,   Vagoniona)   In  the mythology of the Taino Indians of Cuba  at the time of Columbus, a trickster hero.  Guagugiana was taught the use of magic amu -  lets by Guabonito, a woman who arose from the  sea. Guaguiana’s servant, or friend (depending  on which way the various accounts are read),  was Giadruvava, who was taken up to heaven  and transformed into a bird.  See also:   trickster  Guallipen   (Huallepen)   In the folklore of the  Araucanian Indians of Chile, a fantastic amphibi -  ous animal. It has the head of a calf and the body  of a sheep. If a pregnant woman sees, hears, or  dreams of a   guallipen   on three successive nights,  her child will be born deformed. Often the   gual -  lipen   will rape ewes or cows, though the offspring  will occasionally look like the mother, with only  the feet or muzzle deformed.  Guatavita Lake   In the mythology of the  Chibcha   Indians   of   Colombia,   site   of   the  temple of a serpent god who received offerings  from the people. A certain chief of Guatavita  discovered that his favorite wife was unfaith -  ful to him. He had her lover impaled and then  forced his wife to eat her lover’s penis and  testicles. Overcome with shame, the wife threw  herself and her daughter into Guatavita Lake.  The chief then asked his magician to bring the  two back, as he still loved his wife. The magi -  cian went down to the bottom of the lake and  found that the wife and child were living in an  enchanted kingdom ruled over by a dragon.  The chief insisted that they be brought to the  surface. The magician again went down and  came up with the little girl’s dead body, but the  dragon had eaten her eyes.  See also:   dragon; el dorado  Guayavacuni   (Guayarakunny)   In   the  mythology of the Tehuelcho Indians of the  Patagonian pampas in South America, supreme  being and beneficent spirit.  Gucumatz   (plumed   serpent)   In   Mayan  mythology, hero in the Mayan sacred book  Popol Vuh,   who could transform himself into an  eagle, serpent, or tiger, among other animals.  Along with the creator Tepeu, he consulted  Hurukán to determine how they might make  men and glorify the gods. The three then made  the earth, and Gucumatz and Tepeu created the  animals and mankind.  See also:   popol vuh  Gudatrigakwitl   (old man above)   In North  American Indian mythology (Wiyot), creator  god who brought about his creation by join -  ing his hands and spreading them out over the  primordial vacuum.  Gudrun   Name of several different women  appearing in Norse and Germanic mythology.  In the Norse   Volsunga Saga   Gudrun is the wife  of Sigurd. He fell in love with and married  her after being given a magic potion. After  his death she married Atli but later killed him  and his two sons. She appears as Kriemhild in  Gudrun   433

=== 페이지 451 ===
the Germanic epic the   Nibelungenlied   and as  Gutrune in Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen.  Gudrun is also the name of the heroine  of the Icelandic   Laxdala Saga,   in which she  is a selfish woman who marries successively  Thorwald, Thord, and Bolli, though she loves  Kjartan, whose death she brings about.  A German epic poem of the 13th century  is titled   Gudrun.   The first part tells of Hagen,  king   of   Ireland;   the   second   part   recounts  Hetel’s courtship of Hagen’s daughter Hilden;  and the third part tells of Gudrun, their daugh -  ter. Gudrun is engaged to Herwig of Zealand  but is stolen by Hartmut of Normandy. She  refuses to marry her abductor and for 13 years  is forced to do servant’s work. At last Herwig,  accompanied by Gudrun’s brother, rescues her.  William Morris’s   The Lovers of Gudrun,   part of  The Earthly Paradise,   retells the tale. Gudrun  (Gutrune) appears in Arthur Rackham’s illus -  trations for Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   atli; hagen;   nibelungenlied ;   ring  des nibelungen, der  Guecubus   (Guecufu, Huecuvu)   In the folk -  lore of the Araucanian Indians of Chile, demonic  beings capable of assuming animal and human  forms. They sow the fields with caterpillars,  weaken animals with disease, quake the earth,  and devour the fish in rivers and lakes.  Guinechen   (master   of   men?)   In   the  mythology of the Araucanian Indians of Chile,  supreme god. Guinechen controlled the forces  of nature, giving life to people and animals.  He was also called Guinemapun, “master of  the land,” and saved mankind when there was  a flood by raising the mountains so that the  people could escape the waters.  Guinever   (Ganor, Ganora, Generua, Ginevra,  Genievre,   Guenever,   Guanhumara,   Guanhumar,  and Guinevere, as Tennyson spells it) (fair and  yielding)  In Arthurian legend, the wife of King Arthur.  Her name in Welsh is Gwenhywvar (the white  ghost). According to Malory in   Morte d’Arthur  (he spells her name Guenever), she was the  daughter of Leodegraunce, king of the land of  Cameliard. She loved Lancelot of the Lake, one  of the knights of the Round Table, and had a long  love affair with him. When King Arthur went to  war against Leo, king of the Romans, Guinever  was seduced by Mordred, her husband’s nephew  (his son in some accounts). Arthur hurried back  and Guinever fled. A desperate battle followed  between Arthur and Mordred, in which Mor -  dred was slain and Arthur mortally wounded.  Guinever then took the nun’s veil at Almesbury,  where later she died. She was said to be buried at  Glastonbury. In Tennyson’s   Idylls of the King   she  is guilty only of passion for Lancelot and takes  no part in Mordred’s treachery.  See also:   arthur; glastonbury; lancelot  of the lake; round table  Guirivilo   (Neguruvilu)   In the folklore of the  Araucanian Indians of Chile, a catlike monster.  Guinever   (Aubrey Beardsley)  434   Guecubus

=== 페이지 452 ===
Guirivilo is armed with a claw-pointed tail and  lives in the water, coming out to devour people.  Gula   In Near Eastern mythology (Babylo-  nian), goddess of healing, life-giver, the great  physician who preserved the body in health and  who removed sickness and disease by the touch  of her hand. She was married to Ninib, with  whom she shared her powers. She not only did  good works but was invoked to bring down  punishment on one’s enemies. She was also the  intermediary between the gods of the living  and the gods of the dead.  See also:   ninib  Gulistan, The   (rose garden)   A collection  of didactic fables in rhymed prose with inter -  spersed verses by the Persian poet Sadi, written  in 1258.  The Gulistan   is made up of eight chapters or  divisions, each one treating a different subject.  They are “The Manners of Kings,” “The Mor -  als of Dervishes,” “On the Excellence of Con -  tentment,” “On the Advantages of Silence,”  “On Love and Youth,” “On Weakness and Old  Age,” “On the Effects of Education,” and “On  Rules for Conduct of Life.”  The fables, which are brilliant gems of terse  writing,   have   short   verses   interspersed   with  them to summarize the fables and point out the  morals. Often, however, the result is ambiguous.  Many of the moral questions brought up by the  tales are answered in a Machiavellian manner.  One of the English translators of the book in the  last century told his readers to skip over these  “as some of our queasy clergy do in reading  the morning and evening lessons.” Yet no less  a moralist than Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote  that Sadi’s   Gulistan   “speaks to all nations, and  like Homer, Shakespeare, Cervantes, and Mon -  taigne, is perpetually modern.” Emerson found  in the book “the universality of moral law.”  The first translation of   The Gulistan   into a  Western language, Latin, was made in 1651.  It soon was a popular book among the 18th-  century Enlightenment philosophers such as  Voltaire. One of the problems encountered by  the book’s English translators was Sadi’s contin -  ual reference to lovemaking among boys, which  the poet considered perfectly normal. James  Rose, who translated the book in 1823, changed  the male gender to the female and decided on  “the process of leaving out of the translation  a few words of the Persian text.” A complete  translation, with all of the sexual references, was  made by Edward Rehatsek in 1888.  Gunlod   (inviter to battle)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, a giantess, daughter of Suttung; mother of  the god Bragi. She possessed the mead of inspi -  ration, which was stolen from her by Odin,  who seduced her. Gunlod appears in the   Poetic  Edda   and the   Prose Edda.  See also:   baugi; bragi; suttung  Guy   of   Warwick   (wit,   wide,   wood)   In  medieval British legend, hero whose exploits  were   first   written   down   by   an   anonymous  Anglo-Norman poet in the 12th century.  Guy, son of Syward of Wallingford, steward  of the earl of Warwick, fell in love with Felice la  Belle, the earl’s daughter. At first Felice rejected  Guy’s love but later changed her mind and  said she would accept him when he became a  famous knight. Knighted by the earl, Guy went  to sea, seeking adventures that would make him  famous. After a year he returned to England to  be honored by King Aethelstan. However, Felice  feared that if she married him he would lose all  interest in his knighthood. She promised to  marry him if he became the most famous knight  in the whole world. Still in love, Guy returned  to his life of adventure. His greatest achieve -  ment was the deliverance of the emperor of  Constantinople from the Saracens. His reward  for his mighty deeds was half of the emperor’s  kingdom as well as the emperor’s daughter in  marriage. At the altar Guy remembered Felice  and fainted. The marriage was postponed, and  under a pretext Guy left Constantinople.  Returning through Germany, Guy rescued  two lovers, Sir Tirri and Gisel. Back in Eng -  Guy of Warwick   435

=== 페이지 453 ===
land, he heard that a dragon was ravaging Nor -  thumbria; he hastened there and after a violent  battle killed the dragon. When he returned  home, he found that his father had died. At  Warwick he was welcomed as a hero, and he  then married Felice.  After a month of marriage Guy thought of  all of the time he had spent winning Felice’s  love and how little of his life he had given to  Jesus. He vowed to expiate his sins by becom -  ing a pilgrim. Felice attempted to stop him,  telling him that she was pregnant. Guy told her  that when the child was born she should give it  to his former master and companion in arms,  Sir Haraud of Ardern, to be educated. Felice  gave Guy a ring as a parting gift. For many  years, through many lands, Guy the Pilgrim  “with a glad chere” pursued his way.  Once in the East he put aside his pilgrim’s  garb to fight the Saracen giant Amourant on  behalf of Christian prisoners. Then, returning  again to Germany, he helped Sir Tirri once  more. Finally, as an old man he returned to Eng -  land. The land had been invaded by the Danes  under Anlaf, and King Aethelstan, directed by  angels, begged the pilgrim (he did not know it  was Guy) to aid them in their fight against the  giant Colbrand. After a desperate fight near  Winchester, Guy killed the giant. Leaving Win -  chester, Guy journeyed to a neighborhood near  Warwick and settled in a place where a hermit  had once lived. Soon after, Guy fell ill. It was  revealed to him in a dream that he would die in a  week’s time. On the seventh day he found a mes -  senger to carry to Felice the ring that she had  given him at parting, so that she might know  that he had come back.  The messenger took the ring to Felice, and  she begged him for news of Guy. He told her  that Guy had been living as a hermit in the  woods among wild beasts, eating herbs and  roots, and that Guy was near death.  Felice mounted her horse and rode to the  woods to find Guy. When she entered his cell,  Guy raised his eyes and hands toward her, as  though asking her pardon for the sorrow he  had caused her. She bent and kissed him, and  he died.  After his death his body gave forth a sweet  spicelike odor. Sick persons were cured of their  diseases when they smelled it. It lasted until  the day of his burial, which took place in the  hermitage, for no man was able to remove the  body from the cell, even though 30 knights  attempted it. Felice then moved into Guy’s cell  and died there 40 days later.  Gwain   (little   hawk)   In   Arthurian   legend,  nephew to King Arthur, and probably the origi -  nal hero in the quest for the Holy Grail. He  appears in the Welsh   Mabinogion   as Gwalchmei.  Gwain was known as “the courteous.” In the  Middle English poem   Sir Gawain and the Green  Knight   (c. 1360), Gwain beheads the Green  Knight in combat after having promised to meet  him for a return stroke 12 months later at the  Green Chapel. On the appointed day Gwain and  the Green Knight both arrive. Gwain’s honor is  then tested by the knight’s wife, and Gwain  proves himself pure. He escapes unharmed.  See also:   arthur;   mabinogion, the  Gwaten   In   Japanese   Buddhist   mythology,  moon goddess, derived from the Hindu god  Soma. She is portrayed as a woman holding in  her right hand a disk, symbol of the moon. She is  one of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese Buddhist gods  and goddesses adopted from Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o; soma  Gwydion   (Gwidion)   (to   say   poetry)   In  Celtic   mythology,   a   magician,   king   of   the  British Celts, son of Don, brother of Amgethon,  Gilvaethwy, and Govannon, brother and lover  of Arianrhod. Gwydion was noted for the arts  of poetry, divination, and prophecy. Many of  the myths attached to his name were trans -  ferred during the Middle Ages to King Arthur.  See also:   arianrhod; arthur; govannon  Gwynn   (Gwynwas)   (fair, blessed)   In Celtic  mythology, a god of the underworld, son of  436   Gwain

=== 페이지 454 ===
Nudd. Gwynn was at first a war god who  hunted men’s souls, leading them to Annwn,  the land of the dead, over which he ruled.  In later Welsh legend he is the king of the  Tylwyth Teg, the Welsh fairies, and chief of  the Ellyllon, a band of fairy dogs similar to  brownies. Often Gwynn is accompanied by an  owl, indicating his earlier role as god of the  underworld.  See also:   brownies; nudd  Gyges   (earth-born)   In   Greek   mythology,  one of the three giants, Hecatoncheires, sons of  Uranus and Gaea; the others were Briareus and  Cottus. Gyges is also the name of a shepherd  (c. 685–657   b.c.e. ) who killed the Lydian king  and married his widow. He was aided in this  feat, according to legend recorded in Plato’s  Republic   (book 2), by a magic ring that made  him invisible.  See also:   gaea; uranus  Gyges   43 

=== 페이지 455 ===
6  43   Habërmani   An   Armenian   sorcerer   prince  disguises himself as a snake and hides in a pile  of firewood that an old man has gathered and  taken home. In the evening, he reveals himself  to the old man and his wife. The snake tells the  old man that he should go to the king and ask  for the hand of his daughter for his son. The  old man reluctantly follows the suggestion of  Habërmani, but he is not well received by the  king. When he tells the king what he wants, the  king laughs at him and thinks he is mad, but  he agrees—if the old man can build a palace  that rivals that of the king. If he fails, however,  the king will have his head. The old man goes  home, convinced that he is near the end of his  days. Habërmani knows what to do when he  hears the message from the king. He tells the  old man to go into the forest to a certain well  where he will shout down to Mother Earth and  tell her what Habërmani needs. On returning  home, the old peasant finds, not his old hut, but,  rather, a beautiful palace, and thus is sent again  to the king to ask for the hand of the princess.  The king sees the palace, but tells the old man  that he has to go back and lay out a beautiful  garden or lose his head. Again Habërmani tells  him to go to the well, call out to Mother Earth,  and ask for the garden. When the king sees the  beautiful garden, he is really troubled, for now  he knows that some forces are afoot that he does  not understand. A third assignment is given, this  time to weave a carpet that stretches from one  palace to the other. Again Mother Earth helps,  but the king assigns one last task, to provide  seven invisible minstrels with pipes and drums.  This is also quickly accomplished with the help  of Habërmani, the well, and Mother Earth.  Now the king has no choice, and the old man  brings his son to the king. But the youth appears  as a snake, and the king is horrified. Still, he has  promised, and he gives his daughter in marriage  to Habërmani. When he and the princess are  alone, he takes off his snake skin and tells her  that he is indeed a handsome prince. She should  not reveal this to anyone, lest he lose his human  form and spend the rest of his life as a snake.  One day the king decides to hold a tournament  for the nobles of his kingdom. Habërmani slips  away and changes into blue armor to participate  in the tournament. The princess knows immedi -  ately that this is her Habërmani, but the ladies of  the court say that it could not be, since he would  have to slither into the contest as a snake. Finally,  the princess tells them that her Habërmani is  the finest knight in the tournament, and right  away he is struck by a lance and falls from his  horse. Now the spell has been broken, and  Habërmani tells her that she will have to put  on iron sandals and wander the world for seven  years; she will pass seven castles, one each year.  Then Habërmani and the palace, the gardens,  and everything vanishes, and the princess is left  h

=== 페이지 456 ===
all alone. She resolves to find him, puts on the  sandals, and sets out. Habërmani is still wounded  and seeks a realm that is ruled by a witch. The  witch wants Habërmani to marry her daughter.  He loves his princess so much that he will not  consider the witch’s daughter. His wound causes  a terrible fever, however, and the young woman  brings him pitchers of water to cool him off.  His princess wanders to the seven cities; Clay  City, Crystal City, Copper City, Iron City, then  Steel City, Silver City, and finally to Golden  City. Here she meets the witch’s daughter and  soon learns that Habërmani is indeed there but  is still suffering from a vile fever. She asks for  a drink of water and secretly slips her wedding  band into the pitcher. When Habërmani drinks  the water, he finds the ring and is immediately  cured of his fever. Next he sends for his princess,  and they are joined together again, but still need  to escape the magic realm. The witch asks the  princess to massage her feet and to sleep at the  foot of her bed during the night, but Habërmani  knows this is a trick and puts a log in the bed  where the princess is to sleep. In the morning  the log has been smashed to pieces. Next the  witch tries to get the princess lost by sending  her into the forest to collect five sacks of feath -  ers. Habërmani helps her, but the witch has yet  another trick. The princess is to travel around  in the world and collect 12 dresses like none  other on earth. Habërmani knows now that it  is time to try to escape. After traveling some  distance, the two see a cloud of dust following  them; it is the witch’s daughter. Habërmani  turns his wife into a windmill and himself into  a deaf miller. The witch’s daughter arrives and  cannot guess what has happened because the  miller only speaks nonsense. They travel on, but  soon see the cloud of dust behind them. This  time Habërmani turns his wife into a garden  and himself into a deaf gardener. Because she  was so distraught by her daughter’s failures, the  witch sets out in pursuit herself. Again a large  cloud of dust follows the couple, and Habërmani  tells his wife to throw her comb on the ground.  Instantly a great forest springs up around them,  and Habërmani turns his wife into a sapling  and himself into a small snake and then wraps  himself around his wife to protect her. The  witch knows that she might find the pair in the  forest, but Habërmani pleads for mercy, and  the witch agrees, asking only for a kiss from the  snake. Habërmani grants her wish, and she then  returns to her realm, and he and his princess  go back to their kingdom, resume their human  forms, and Habërmani never again has to resort  to the use of his snakeskin.  See also:   snake  Habid al-Nadjdjar   In Islamic legend, saint  identified with Agabus, a Christian prophet  mentioned   in   the   New   Testament.   In   Acts  (11:28) Agabus predicts a famine that is to take  place during the reign of the emperor Claudius  Caesar. The historian Josephus does mention a  famine that depopulated the country of Judea.  According to Acts (21:10), Agabus met St. Paul  some time after this event.  In the Islamic account Habid al-Nadjdjar  (the carpenter) is converted by two Apostles of  Jesus and runs to tell the people of the city to  follow them. The people are unmoved by his  arguments and kill him, telling Habid to “enter  into Paradise” (Koran, sura 36). In one legend  Habid (who is not directly named in the Koran)  was decapitated. He took his head and walked  with it for three days, when it cried out: “How  gracious Allah hath been to me, and that He  hath made me one of His honored ones.” This  statement is recorded in the Koran (sura 36),  although the decapitation is not mentioned.  Sura 36 also reports that Allah sent the arch -  angel Gabriel to the people: “And lo! they  were extinct.” The destruction of the people  may stem back to the famine that is part of the  Christian legend.  See   also:   allah;   gabriel;   koran,   the;  paul, st.  Hacavitz   In   Mayan   Indian   mythology,   a  mountain god, as well as the mountain where  the god was worshipped. The Mayan book   Title  Hacavitz   43 

=== 페이지 457 ===
of the Lord of Totonicapán   (16th century) says  that Hacavitz was the god of Mahucutah, who  “went up the height and breadth of Hacavitz  itself.” Giving the same name to a mountain  and a god who dwells on it is quite common in  mythology.  Hactcin   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Jicarilla Apache), supernatural personifi -  cation of objects and natural forces, creator of  all things.  Haddingjar   In   northern   mythology,   twin  brothers   named   among   the   early   kings   of  Norway or Sweden. They are believed by some  scholars to have been twin heroic or godly fig -  ures, much like Castor and Pollux, Hengist and  Horsa, and Romulus and Remus.  See also:   castor and polydeuces; hengist  and horsa; romulus and remus  Hades   (hidden,   sightless)   In   Greek   and  Roman   mythology,   god   of   the   underworld,  son of Cronus and Rhea; brother of Demeter,  Hera, Hestia, Zeus, and Poseidon. When he  was born, Hades was swallowed by his father  and later disgorged when Zeus, with the help  of Metis, tricked Cronus. When Cronus was  defeated by his rebel sons, Zeus, Poseidon, and  Hades, the three gods drew lots on which part  of the universe each would rule. The under -  world fell to Hades. The god fell in love with  Persephone, whom he abducted and made his  wife, though she never bore him any children.  No temples were dedicated to the god. The  cypress and narcissus were sacred to him. In  ancient art he was portrayed in a manner simi -  lar to his brothers Zeus and Poseidon, bearing  a staff, symbol of authority. Sometimes he was  accompanied by his wife, Persephone, and the  three-headed dog Cerebrus. Among the many  names in Greek and Roman mythology borne  by the god are Ades, Aides, Aidoneus, Dis,  Orcus, Pluto, and Pluton.  See   also:   demeter; hera; hestia; metis;  persephone; poseidon; zeus  Hadith   In Islam, traditional sayings ascribed to  Muhammad, which supplement the Koran. The  compilation was made in the 10th century by the  Muslim jurists Moshin and Bokhari. The Hadith  was originally not allowed to be written down,  but because there was danger of the traditions  being forgotten or perverted, they were eventu -  ally written. They help clarify points of law or  ceremonial observance on which the Koran is  silent or does not provide enough information.  Hadith also deal with the life of Muhammad  and the circumstances attending the revelations  made to him. Although Muslim authorities have  been very strict in the canons laid down for the  reception or rejection of these traditions, a great  deal of uncertainty exists as to the authentic -  ity of many inclusions in the Hadith. The laws  embodied in the traditions are called the Sunnah.  In addition to the Koran and Hadith, the Isma  (consensus) of Muslim authorities covers points  not explicit in the other works.  See also:   muhammad  Hades  440   Hactcin

=== 페이지 458 ===
Haemus   (skillful?)   In Greek mythology,  king of Thrace; son of Boreas and Orithyia;  brother   of   Calais,   Chione,   Cleopatra,   and  Zetes;   husband   of   Rhodope.   Haemus   and  Rhodope   were   so   pleased   with   themselves  that they called themselves Zeus and Hera.  For   this   sacrilege   they   were   transformed  into mountains (the Balkans, once called the  Haemus range and today called the Rhodope  Mountains). Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6)  tells the tale.  See also:   ovid  hafaza   In   Islamic   mythology,   angels   who  protect people from djinn; two are assigned to  a person for the daytime and two for the night.  They keep a register of all of one’s actions: the  one who stands on a man’s right keeps a record  of his good deeds, and the angel who stands on  his left records all of his evil acts. Sometimes  the angel on the right tries to persuade his  angelic companion not to write down the evil  deeds but to give the person at least six or seven  hours to repent. The most dangerous time for a  person is when the angelic guards are changing  shifts, which takes place at the rising and the  setting of the sun. The djinn are most active at  this time because they know a person’s angelic  protection is at its weakest.  Hagen   In the   Nibelungenlied   and in Wagner’s  Der   Ring   des   Nibelungen,   the   slayer   of   the  hero   Siegfried.   He   is   called   Hagni   in   the  earlier   Volsunga Saga.   Hagen is portrayed in  Arthur   Rackham’s   illustrations   for   Wagner’s  Ring Cycle.  See also:   nibelungenlied ;   ring des nibe -  lungen, der ; siegfried;   volsunga saga  Hagia Sophia   (holy wisdom)   In Christian-  ity, second person of the Christian Trinity,  Jesus Christ. The church dedicated to Hagia  Sophia at Constantinople was built by Emperor  Justinian   between   532   and   537.   When   the  Turks took Constantinople in 1453, the build -  ing was turned into a mosque.  Hai K’ang   In Chinese legend, one of the  seven Chu-lin Ch’i-Hsien (Seven Immortals).  He was a student of the black arts, which he  practiced under a willow tree. In Japanese leg -  end he is called Riurei.  See also:   chu-lin ch’i-hsien  Haitsi-aibed   In   African   mythology   (Hot-  tentot), resurrected hero, born of a cow and the  miraculous grass it had eaten; patron of hunters  and a superb fighter. Haitsi-aibed’s most famous  battle was with Gaunab (thrower down), a mon -  ster who would sit at the edge of a deep pit and  dare passersby to hurl a stone at him. The stone  always rebounded, hitting the person and caus -  ing him to fall into the pit. When Haitsi-aibed  accepted the challenge of Gaunab, he made  sure to divert the monster, and then he hurled  Haitsi-aibed   44   The Trinity

=== 페이지 459 ===
the stone so as to hit him under his ear, caus -  ing Gaunab to fall into the pit. In some variant  accounts Gaunab falls into the pit three times,  escaping twice but dying after the third fall.  Other tales tell how Haitsi-aibed died and was  resurrected. Even today many caves and cairns  in South Africa are called Haitsi-aibed graves in  reference to the tales.  Halirrhothius   (roaring   sea)   In   Greek  mythology, son of Poseidon and Euryte. He  raped Ares’ daughter Alcippe. Ares in turn  killed Halirrhothius and was brought to the  Areopagus trial by Poseidon and acquitted.  See also:   ares; poseidon  haltia   (familiar   spirit)   In   Finno-Ugric  mythology, tutelary genius of a person. Each  person has his own   haltia,   which goes before  him. If the   haltia   is a very potent one, it arrives  home before the person does, announcing its  presence by a crash. The   haltia   is believed to  become a reality three days after birth, and  it is considered dangerous for a baby to be  alone before that time. The   haltia   is some -  times blamed for a man’s poor actions, with  people saying, “It was not he, but his   haltia. ”  Sometimes the terms   saattaja   (guide) and   onni  (fortune) are used in reference to   haltia.  Halwanli, Hiwanama, and Ourwanama  In the mythology of the Surinam region (for -  merly Dutch Guiana) in South America, rival  brothers. Halwanli was the oldest, the lord of  all things inanimate and irrational. Ourwanama,  the second brother, was a worker of the fields,  a maker of liquor, and the husband of two  wives. The youngest brother, Hiwanama, was  a hunter.  One day Hiwanama came to the territory of  Ourwanama and met his brother’s two wives,  who got him drunk and then seduced him.  When Ourwanama discovered what had hap -  pened   he   exiled   his   brother.   Their   mother  complained about the loss of her son; as a result  the wives were transformed into a bird and a  fish, and Ourwanama was drowned in the sea.  Halwanli then went in search of Hiwanama and  found him among the serpents and other reptiles  of the lower world. When he brought him back,  Hiwanama became one of the greatest   peaimen,  magician-priests similar to medicine men.  Hamlet   (Amleth)   (home)   In   medieval  legend, a Danish hero, son of Gerutha and  Horvendill. The legend of Hamlet, or Amleth,  was first told by Saxo Grammaticus, a Danish  chronicler, in his   Historia Danica.  Hamlet’s father, Horvendill, was killed by  his brother Feng, who then married Gerutha,  widow of Horvendill. Hamlet, fearful of being  killed, pretended to go insane. Feng put him  to various tests to see if the madness was real.  Among other things he sought to entangle  Hamlet with a young girl, his foster sister, but  Hamlet’s cunning saved him. When Hamlet  slew an eavesdropper hidden in his mother’s  room and then hid all traces of the murder,  Feng decided Hamlet was not insane. He sent  Hamlet off to England in the company of two  attendants, who bore a letter to the king of  England, telling him to put Hamlet to death.  Hamlet secretly altered the letter, and the two  attendants were put to death instead. He also  changed the letter to say that the king should  allow   Hamlet   to   marry   his   daughter.   After  marrying   the   princess,   Hamlet   returned   to  Denmark, taking with him hollow sticks filled  with gold. He arrived in time for a funeral feast  held to celebrate his death. During the feast  he plied the courtiers with wine and executed  his vengeance during their drunken sleep. He  covered them with the woolen hangings of the  hall, fastened down with sharpened pegs, and  then set fire to the palace. With the death of  Feng the people proclaimed Hamlet king. He  then returned to England for his wife.  Other adventures follow, none of which have  left traces on the play inspired by the legend.  The most famous, of course, is Shakespeare’s  Hamlet,   which inspired Lizst’s symphonic poem  Hamlet,   Tchaikovsky’s fantasy overture   Hamlet,  442   Halirrhothius

=== 페이지 460 ===
Ambrose Thomas’s opera   Hamlet,   and Shosta -  kovich’s incidental music to the movie of the  play. Hamlet has been depicted in film by such  actors as Sir Laurence Olivier (1948), Richard  Burton (1964), and Mel Gibson (1991).  Handaka   Sonja   In   Japanese   Buddhist  mythology, one of the perfected disciples, or  arhats,   of the Buddha, often portrayed with a  bowl from which issues a dragon or a rain cloud  (both symbols of water). Handaka Sonja holds  the bowl aloft with his left hand and with his  right carries the sacred Tama. Sometimes he  is portrayed seated on a rock with a crouch -  ing dragon at the side to protect the Tama. In  Sanskrit, Handaka Sonja is called Panthaka.  See also:   arhat  Han Hsiang Tzu   (ninth century   c.e. )   In  Chinese Taoist legend, a deified mortal, one of  the Pa-Hsien, the Eight Immortals. He is por -  trayed playing a flute or floating on a hollow  tree trunk. Once he was carried to the top of  a magic peach tree growing near a palace. The  bough broke, and he entered into immortality  as he fell. During his lifetime he was credited  with magically filling an empty tub with wine,  as well as having flowers grow out of an empty  pot and having golden poems appear on leaves.  In Japanese legend Han Hsiang Tzu is called  Kanshoshi.  See also:   pa-hsien; peach  Hannya   In   Japanese   folklore,   a   female  demon who eats children. She often appears  in No dramas and is portrayed by a mask with  horns, open mouth, and sharp fangs.  See also:   no  Hansel and Gretel   German folktale found  in the Grimms’ collection of   Household Tales.  Hansel and Gretel are the children of a poor  woodcutter, who remarries after the death of  his wife. The stepmother hates the children and  says there is not enough food for them to eat.  The children are abandoned in the forest but  find their way home. They are sent out a second  time and become lost. They discover the house  of a witch, who captures them and prepares to  eat them. Each day the witch feeds them and  feels their hands and arms to see if they have  gained enough weight to make them fit to eat.  Instead of putting out his arm, Hansel puts  out a bone, and the nearsighted witch keeps  postponing the day of doom. Finally, the witch  angrily says she is ready to eat Hansel, thin or  not. She asks Gretel to go inside the oven to  see if it is hot enough. Gretel says she does not  know how. The witch demonstrates for her and  the children push her into the oven and close  the door. The children then fill their pockets  with jewels and eventually return home to find  their father alive and their stepmother dead.  Hansel and Gretel is tale type 327/327a,  “The Children and the Ogre.” Humperdinck’s  opera   Hansel and Gretel   is the best-known treat -  ment of the folktale, though it varies the tale  somewhat.  See also:   tale type  hantu   In Malayan mythology, generic name  for demons ghosts, and spirits.  Hantu Ayer and Hantu Laut   In Malayan  mythology, water and sea spirits or demons. Han Hsiang Tzu  Hantu Ayer and Hantu Laut   443

=== 페이지 461 ===
Hantu   B’rok   In Malayan mythology, the  baboon demon sometimes called the coconut  monkey. He is believed to take possession of  dancers and enable them to perform wonderful  climbing feats.  Hantu Denej   In Malayan mythology, the  demon of wild beasts’ tracks.  Hantu Kubor   In Malayan mythology, grave  demons who also prey on the living when  given   the   opportunity.   With   them   are   the  Hantu Orang Mati Di-Bunch, the spirits of  murdered men.  Hantu   Pemburu   (demon   hunter)   In  Malayan   mythology,   the   wild   huntsman   or  specter huntsman who causes havoc for man.  There was a man named Hantu Pemburu  whose wife was pregnant. She was “seized with  a violent longing for meat of the   pelandok,   or  mouse deer.” But it was no ordinary mouse deer  the woman wanted. She insisted that it should  be a doe, “big with male offspring.” Her hus -  band, obedient to his wife’s wishes, went into the  jungle to seek the   pelandok,   taking his weapons  and his faithful dogs. Through a misunderstand -  ing, the man hunted the buck   pelandok,   “big with  male offspring,” of course, an impossible quest.  Hantu Pemburu hunted day and night, slay -  ing one mouse deer after another, which he dis -  carded because he believed they did not fulfill  his wife’s requirements. He had sworn a solemn  oath that he would not return home unless he  was successful, and he became a regular deni -  zen of the forest, eating the flesh and drinking  the blood of the animals that he slew.  In time he covered the whole earth. “I have  hunted the whole earth over without finding  what I want,” he said to himself. “It is now  time to try the firmament.” He “holloa’d on  his dogs through the sky” while he continued  on earth, bending back his neck to watch their  progress. After a long time his head became  fixed on his back as a result of constantly gazing  upward. He was no longer able to look down  at the earth. A leaf from the   si limbak   tree fell  on his throat and took root, and a shoot grew  upward in front of his face. In this state, Hantu  Pemburu still hunts through the Malay forest,  urging on his dogs as they hunt through the  sky, with his gaze always turned upward.  His wife is not forgotten in the myth. She  gave birth to two children, a boy and a girl.  When the boy was of age, he went in search of  his father. On his way he came upon a man who  said that the boy’s father had borrowed a chisel  from him and he wanted it returned. When the  son found his father in the forest, he told him  about the man.  “I will eat his heart and drink his blood,”  responded Hantu Pemburu. “So shall he be  rewarded.” From that day forth Hantu Pem -  buru has afflicted humankind.  Hantu   Songkei   (loosening   demon)   In  Malayan mythology, a demon who sets about  untying the knots made by hunters in snares for  wildfowl. He is invisible below the waist, and  he has a nose of enormous length (a symbol of  his penis) and eye sockets stretched sideways to  such an extent that he can see all around him.  Hanukkah   (Chanukkah)   (dedication)   In  Judaism, an eight-day festival commemorating  the dedication of the second Temple by Judas  Maccabeus.   The   Old   Testament   Apocrypha  book 1 Maccabees (4:59) states, “Moreover  Judas and his brethren with the whole congre -  gation of Israel ordained that the days of the  dedication of the altar should be kept in their  season from year to year by the space of eight  days .   .   . with mirth and gladness.” According  to one account in the Talmud, the festival lasts  eight days because the oil found in the Temple  was sufficient for only one day, but it burned  for eight. The main symbol of Hanukkah is the  menorah, an eight-branch candlestick with a  socket for a ninth candle. Also called the Feast  of Dedication, it falls on the 25th day of the  month Kislev (around 10 December).  See also:   menorah; talmud  444   Hantu B’rok

=== 페이지 462 ===
Hanuman   (Hanumat) (having large jaws)   In  the Hindu epic poem   The Ramayana,   a monkey  hero. Hanuman was the son of Vayu, the wind  god, by a monkey mother, Vanar. He and his  monkey allies assisted Rama in his war against  the   demon   king   Ravana.   In   one   episode   in  The Ramayana,   Hanuman jumps from India to  Lanka (Sri Lanka) in one leap. However, he is  caught in the city by Ravana’s men, and his tail is  greased and set on fire. Hanuman jumps around  from building to building, burning the entire  city. He later flies to the Himalayas and brings  back medicinal herbs with which he heals the  wounded. Still later, he helps Rama win back  Sita, Rama’s wife, from Ravana and receives the  reward of perpetual life and youth.  Hanuman is described as “vast as a mountain  and as tall as a gigantic tower. His complexion is  yellow and glowing like molten gold. His face is  as red as the brightest ruby; while his enormous  tail spreads out to an interminable length. He  stands on a lofty rock and roars like thunder. He  leaps into the air and flies among the clouds with  a rushing noise, while the ocean waves are roar -  ing and splashing below.” A drama,   Hanuman -  nataka,   treating Hanuman’s adventures is said to  have been written by the monkey hero himself.  See   also:   rama;   ramayana, the ; ravana,  vayu  Haoma   In Persian mythology, sacred heal -  ing plant from which an intoxicating drink was  made, similar to the Hindu sacred plant Soma.  Thrita, a hero in Persian myth, is called  the preparer of Haoma, the third man who  prepared the magic drink for the world. He  prayed   to   Ahura   Mazda,   the   good   creator  god, for a medicine that would withstand the  pain, disease, infection, and death that the evil  spirits were working against men. In answer  to Thrita’s prayers Ahura Mazda sent down  various healing plants that grew around the  Gaokerena tree, a magical tree that had within  it the seeds of all plants and trees, among them  the sacred Haoma. The Haoma was used in  various rites and was believed to make the dead  immortal if they tasted it, grant children to  women, and give strong men to young girls as  their husbands.  See also:   ahura mazda; soma  Hapi   (Hap, Hapy)   In Egyptian mythology,  god of the Nile, who became identified in some  myths with all of the great primeval creative  deities and eventually was believed to have  been the creator of everything. At a very early  period Hapi absorbed the attributes of Nun,  the primeval watery mass from which the god  Ra emerged on the first day of creation. As a  result, Hapi was regarded as the father of all  beings. He held a unique position in Egyptian  religion, although he was not in any theological  system developed by the priests.  The light of Ra brought life to men and  animals, but without the waters of Hapi every  living thing would perish. Some hymns credit  Hapi with causing the Nile to flood every  year, thus irrigating the fields of Egypt. The  flood was said to come from two caverns made  from the imprints of Hapi’s sandals. The god  Khnum was in charge of these “secret caverns  of Hapi.” Hapi is usually portrayed as a fat  man with blue or green skin and the breasts Hanuman  Hapi   445

=== 페이지 463 ===
of a woman to indicate his powers of fertility.  When he represents both the south and north  Nile, Hapi holds two plants, the papyrus and  the lotus, or two vases from which he pours  out water.  See also:   earth diver; ra  hare   A rodentlike mammal, related to but  larger than the rabbit; the two are often con -  fused in world mythology and folklore. It was  believed that the hare was abnormally lustful,  and the animal came to be a symbol of lust  as portrayed by medieval artists and writers.  Most medieval books cite the belief that the  hare was capable of changing its sex. The  female animal was also believed to be able  to conceive without the aid of a male and to  retain its virginity. When a hare appears in  a painting of the Virgin Mary, it is symbolic  of the triumph of chastity. The enemies of  Queen Elizabeth I of England called her a  hare because her devoted subjects called her  the virgin queen. It was a common belief that  the appearance of a hare presaged misfortune.  It is still considered unlucky for a hare to  cross one’s path, because witches could trans -  form themselves into hares. In many African-  American tales from the Southeast, the rabbit  is the trickster. There are numerous motifs  associated with the hare/rabbit in the   Motif  Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   br’er rabbit; uncle remus; virgin  mary  Harimau Kramat   In Malayan mythology,  ghost tigers. Once there was a man named  Nakhoda Ragam traveling in a boat with his  wife, the princess of Malacca. When the prin -  cess,   for   some   reason   not   revealed   in   the  legend, pricked her husband to death with a  needle, his blood flooded the boat. Another  boat was passing, and the master of that vessel  asked, “What have you got in your boat?”  “Spinach juice,” replied the princess. She  then went on her way and landed at the foot of  Jurga Hill, where she buried all that remained  of her husband—one thigh (she had thrown  most of his body overboard). She also took  ashore her two cats, which were in the boat  with her when she murdered her husband. The  cats turned into Harimau Kramat, ghost tigers,  and became the guardians of the shrine.  Haris-chandra   In Hindu mythology, a king  noted for his suffering.  One day when Haris-chandra was hunting,  he heard female voices “from the sciences, who  were being mastered by the austerely fervid sage  Viswamitra, and were crying out in alarm at his  superiority.” Haris-chandra, as defender of the  distressed, went to the rescue. Viswamitra was  so provoked by Haris-chandra’s interference  that the sciences were destroyed. Haris-chan -  dra was placed under the complete control of  Viswamitra. The sage demanded from Haris-  chandra a sacrificial gift, and Haris-chandra  offered Viswamitra whatever he wanted, “gold,  his own son, wife, body, life, kingdom, good  fortune.” Viswamitra stripped Haris-chandra  of his wealth and kingdom, leaving him with  nothing but a garment of bark and his wife  and son.  In this state Haris-chandra left his wife  and son, only to have the two also demanded  by Viswamitra. With bitter grief the two were  sold, and later Haris-chandra, the former king,  was carried off “bound, beaten and confused,  and afflicted.”  The gods finally took pity on his suffering  and took him to heaven, but Haris-chandra Hare   (Konrad Gesner)  446   hare

=== 페이지 464 ===
boasted of his merits and was thrown out. As  he was falling, he repented of his foolishness,  and his fall was arrested. He now dwells in the  aerial city, which can still be seen floating in  midair, according to some.  See also:   viswamitra  Harmachis   (Horus who is on the horizon)   In  Egyptian mythology, the Greek form of the  Egyptian god Rehoarakhty. According to leg -  end,   the   Pharaoh   Tuthmosis   IV,   while   still  a   prince,   was   hunting   in   the   deserts   near  Giza and sought shelter from the noonday  sun in the shadow of the Great Sphinx. He  soon fell asleep, and in a dream the Sphinx,  as Rehoarakhty, promised him the throne of  Egypt if he would clear away the sands that  had engulfed the Sphinx. The prince awoke,  cleared away the sand, and was later crowned  king of Egypt. A stele erected at the site of the  Sphinx by Tuthmosis IV records the dream and  its consequences.  Harmonia   (concord)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, daughter of Ares and Aphrodite, wife of  Cadmus, king of Thebes; mother of Agave,  Autonoe, Ino, Polydorus, and Semele. When  Harmonia   was   married   to   Cadmus,   Zeus,  who arranged the match, gave Harmonia a  necklace made by Hephaestus that promised  its   possessor   beauty.   In   variant   accounts,  the   necklace   was   given   to   Cadmus,   who  gave it to his wife, or the gift was given by  Zeus to his mistress Europa or by Aphrodite  to   Harmonia.   Given   at   the   same   time   to  Harmonia was a robe by Athena, who, some  variant accounts say, also gave the necklace.  Both gifts brought disaster on the family and  played an important part in the Seven against  Thebes as well as the war of the Epigoni.  Finally, to stop the bloodshed, the gifts were  placed in the temple of Apollo at Delphi,  where they remained until the fourth century  b.c.e.,   when they were stolen. Harmonia and  Cadmus   were   turned   into   serpents.   Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (books 3, 4) tells the story, and  Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (9.503–506) refers to  the transformation.  See also:   aphrodite; apollo; ares; athena;  cadmus; delphi; hephaestus; ovid; zeus  Haroeris   (Horus the elder, Horus the great)  In Egyptian mythology, Greek name for Har  Wer, who was worshipped at Letopolis. Some  texts say he was the son of Geb, the earth god,  and Nut, the sky goddess; others that he was  the son of Ra, the sun god, and Hathor, the  cow goddess. Haroeris was worshipped with his  female counterpart, Ta-sent-nefert, and their  son, Pneb- taui, forming a trinity. In Egyptian  art Haroeris is portrayed as a man with the  head of a hawk wearing the double crown of  Upper and Lower Egypt.  See also:   geb; hathor; nut; ra  Harpies   (snatcher)   In   Greek   mythology,  winged   monsters   with   women’s   faces   and  vulture bodies, daughters of Thaumas and  Electra   or   of   Poseidon   and   Gaea.   Some  accounts give their names as Aello, Celaeno,  and Ocypete. Hesiod’s   Theogony   names Aello  and   Ocypete;   Homer   names   Podarge.   In  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 3) they harass Aeneas’s  men as they are resting and eating on their  way to Italy; Celaeno, however, delivers a  crucial   prophecy   to   Aeneas.   In   Spenser’s  Faerie Queene   (2.12.36) they are “the hell -  ish Harpies, prophets of sad destiny,” and  in   Milton’s   Paradise   Regained   (book   2.403)  the banquet created by Satan vanishes “with  sound of Harpies wings, and Talons heard.”  See also:   aeneid, the ; electra; gaea; hes -  iod; poseidon  Harpokrates   (Horus the child, the infant  Horus)   In   Egyptian   mythology,   Greek  name for the Egyptian Heru-p-khart, a form  of the god Horus. He was often portrayed  with the sidelock of youth and wearing the  double crown of Upper and Lower Egypt.  His index finger is held to his lips, which the  Greeks misinterpreted as a symbol of his dis -  Harpokrates   44 

=== 페이지 465 ===
cretion. They called Harpokrates the god of  silence as a result of this mistake. Sometimes  Harpokrates is shown being suckled by his  mother, Isis.  See also:   horus; isis  Harris, Eliza   In American history and folk -  lore, a black slave woman who fled north with  her two children. When she reached the Ohio  River, it was winter, and the ice was breaking  up.   Her   pursuers,   with   bloodhounds,   were  left helpless at the shore as Eliza, leading her  children, crossed the river by jumping from  one ice floe to another. John Van Zandt, a  Methodist minister who believed there was no  such person as a slave, was known to be a main  conductor on the Underground Railroad. Eliza  Harris was harbored by the Van Zandts on  her trip to Canada. The house is known as the  “Eliza House.” Van Zandt was the model for  John Van Trompe in Harriet Beecher Stowe’s  antislavery novel   Uncle Tom’s Cabin   and uses the  episode as does the ballet sequence in   The King  and I   by Rodgers and Hammerstein.  Harut   and   Marut   In Islamic mythology,  two fallen angels who teach men sorcery and  magic. They are the brothers of Iblis, the father  of the djinn, who is the best-known fallen angel  in Islam.  According to the Koran (sura 2), Harut  and Marut teach men “how to cause division  between husband and wife.” The two can work  their evil only by permission of Allah. A num -  ber of legends are connected with this passage  in the Koran.  In one account, when the angels saw how  sinful man was they spoke contemptuously of  him to Allah. “If you were in his place,” Allah  replied, “you would do no better.”  The angels did not agree with Allah, and  two of them, Harut and Marut, were chosen  to fly down to earth for an experiment to test  the truth of the matter. Allah told them that  they were to abstain from idolatry, whoredom,  murder, and drinking of wine (all forbidden to  Muslims). When the two came upon a beauti -  ful woman, Zorba (or Zurah), they fell victim  to her sexual charms. They were discovered in  the act by a man, whom they killed, hoping no  one would learn of their deed.  Allah, watching from heaven, saw all that  happened. The angels were called to see what  Harut and Marut had done. “In truth, Thou  wast   right,”   they   said   to   Allah.   Harut   and  Marut were then given the choice of suffering  in this world or the next. They chose to suffer  on earth and were thrown into a “well in the  town of Babylon, where loaded with chains,”  they took up the business of teaching men  magic and sorcery. (In Persian the word   harut  is used for a magician.)  See also:   allah; iblis; koran, the  Hatfields and McCoys   In American folk -  lore, two feuding families separated by a few  miles of wild mountain and by Tug Fort, a  creek that forms a natural boundary between  Kentucky and West Virginia. The exact cause  of the feud is not known. Some accounts say  it had to do with a stolen pig; others say the  slaying of Asa Harmon McCoy was the defin -  ing event. Asa Harmon, brother of Randolph  McCoy, was a slave owner, but he was also  a keen observer of his times. He defied the  general sympathies of the region and enlisted  in the Union army in 1864. He served for 11  months until he was felled by a broken leg  and discharged from the army on Christmas  Eve. He returned home to a chilly recep -  tion. He was threatened by Jim Vance, the  ruthless uncle of Devil Anse Hatfield. It was  Vance who promised a visit from the Logan  Wildcats, a local “home guard” group. Asa  Harmon fled to the hills and found refuge in  a cave. For several weeks, he hid there, vis -  ited only by his wife and his slave, Pete, who  brought food and supplies. On the night of 7  January 1865, it was Pete who inadvertently  revealed   Asa   Harmon.   The   Wildcats   had  simply followed Pete’s tracks in the snow. Asa  Harmon met his fate at the end of a rifle. The  44    Harris, Eliza

=== 페이지 466 ===
feud went on for some time, and the death toll  ranged from 50 to 200.  Hathor   (Athyr, Athor)   (house of Horus)   In  Egyptian mythology, ancient sky goddess, great  mother goddess often portrayed as a cow or  with the head of a cow. Hathor, according to  one Egyptian myth, stood on the earth as a cow  in such a way that her four legs were the pillars  holding the sky, and her belly was the firma -  ment. Each evening Horus, as the sun god,  flew into Hathor’s mouth in his hawk form,  and each morning he appeared again, reborn.  Consequently, Horus was said to be both her  husband and her son.  Hathor was one of the oldest known god -  desses of Egypt, considered to be the great  mother, or cosmic goddess, who conceived,  brought forth, and maintained all life. She not  only nourished the living with her milk but  was said to supply celestial food for the dead  in Duat, the underworld. The goddess also  was known for her destructive role. One myth  tells how the sun god, who had grown old and  wanted to punish mankind for plotting to do  away with him, sent Hathor to slay mankind.  Hathor enjoyed the slaughter so much that the  other deities flooded the fields with an intoxi -  cating brew, causing her to become drunk and  cease her slaughter. Hathor’s main temple was  at Dendera, where she was worshipped with  Horus and their son Ihi, or Ahi, who was por -  trayed as an infant playing the sistrum at her  side (the sistrum was believed to drive away evil  spirits). Great festivals were celebrated in her  temple, the most important being the festival  of her birth, held at the new year, which ended  with   a   drunken   orgy.   Her   temple   became  known as a palace of enjoyment and a house of  intoxication and gave rise to her reputation as  mistress of merriment and dance, as well as her  popularity as a goddess of love, which caused  the Greeks to identify her with Aphrodite.  In late Egyptian belief Hathor became the  representative of all of the great goddesses  in Egypt. Shrines were erected in her honor  throughout the land. In her beneficent aspect  she was called Nehem Away (the one who takes  care of the deprived), referring to those who  have been robbed or plundered.  See   also:   aphrodite;   audhumla;   duat;  horus  Hathsepsut   (foremost   in   nobility)   (1501–  1447   b.c.e. )   In Egyptian history and legend,  one of the first women to rule in her own  right as pharaoh. At the death of Thuthmosis  II, Thuthomosis III was too young to rule.  The decision was made to name Hathsepsut  as regent until the young prince came of age.  The beginning of their joint reign was marked  by peaceful cooperation. But Hathsepsut soon  seized the throne and relegated Thuthmosis  III to an insignificant administrative role. She  turned her attention to rebuilding Egypt inter -  nally and credited her kingship to the god  Amun, to whom she built many monuments.  The   obelisks   she   erected   to   Amun   in   the  temples at Karnak were of extraordinary size  and were quarried and erected in record time.  Her   architect,   Senemut,   erected   for   her   a  funerary temple at Dier el Bahari in which the  scenes show her famous trading expedition to Hathor  Hathsepsut   44 

=== 페이지 467 ===
the legendary land of Punt to obtain incense  for Amun’s cult. It also shows her divine birth,  the episodes of which include the courting of  her mother Ahmose by the god Amun. When  Hathsepsut died, Thuthmosis III assumed his  rightful position as pharaoh. Shortly there -  after, many of the monuments of Hathsepsut  were destroyed in an attempt to obliterate her  name. Some contend that this destruction was  ordered by Thuthmosis III.  See also:   amun  Hatim   In   a   Moroccan   Islamic   legend,   a  princess   who   turned   into   an   almond   tree.  Before the advent of Islam, Hatim was a young,  generous princess of the Tai tribe. Her father  objected to her dispensing his wealth as well as  her own, so he offered to let her choose exile  or death. She chose death, but Allah rewarded  her for her generous deeds by transforming her  into “a tree of great beauty—the almond tree  which enhances our orchards.”  Even today, as the almond tree, she “contin -  ues to distribute gifts; her flowers are the joy of  spring; her fruit has a delightful taste; her oil  is sweet and clean; she inspires peace and heals  the troubled hearts of men.”  Hattara Aonja   In Japanese Buddhist mythol -  ogy, one of the perfected disciples, or   arhats,   of  the Buddha, often portrayed with a white tiger  crouching at his feet. He holds a   nloi,   a short  wand,   symbol   of   power,   and   is   sometimes  seated on a rock. In Sanskrit, Hattara Aonja is  called Bhadra (auspicious).  See also:   arhat  Hatto   (10th   century)   In   medieval   north -  ern legends, archbishop of Mainz who was  devoured by mice because of his greed.  In 970 there was a famine in Germany. It  was known that Hatto had amassed vast stores of  wheat in his granaries. When the people asked  him for help, he appointed a day for them to  receive grain. When the day arrived, the crowd  filled the archbishop’s barn to capacity. He then  locked the door and set the barn on fire, burning  all of the people inside to death.  After his murderous act he had a good  dinner and a good night’s sleep, as usual. The  next morning he saw that his portrait had been  eaten by rats. As the archbishop was survey -  ing the previous night’s destruction, a servant  rushed in to tell him rats had also eaten the  remainder of the stored wheat. No sooner had  the servant told his tale than another appeared  to inform the archbishop that rats were con -  verging on the palace. Hatto, looking out the  window, could see thousands of the creatures  descending on the building.  In terror Hatto fled by boat to a private  island, where he had earlier built a tower. His  flight, however, was in vain; the rats pursued him,  attacked his boat, and landed on the island. The  archbishop managed to reach the tower, but the  rats caught up with him and ate him alive. Robert  Southey in his   Metrical Tales   tells the legend:  They have whetted their teeth against the  stones,  And now they pick the Bishop’s bones;  They gnaw’d the flesh from every limb,  For they were sent to do judgment on him.  There is a medieval watchtower on the  Rhine, near Bingen, called the Mouse Tower,  and Hatto’s legend is associated with it. The  tower, however, was built by Bishop Siegfried  some 200 years after Hatto; it was built as a  tollhouse for collecting duties on all goods  passing through.  Hatuibwari   In   Melanesian   mythology,   a  bisexual creator god of the Arosi, sometimes por -  trayed as a winged serpent with a human head,  four eyes, and four breasts to suckle the young.  Hatuibwari’s symbols are sometimes assigned to  another bisexual creator god, Agunus.  Hatyani   of   Debrecen   (1718–1786)   In  Finno-Ugric legend, physician and philosopher  whose experiments gained him a reputation for  450   Hatim

=== 페이지 468 ===
black magic. Tales told about him are generally  based on literary, not folk, sources.  Haumea   In Polynesian mythology, Hawaiian  fertility goddess, mother of Pele, also said to be  the first woman. In some myths Haumea is  identified with the earth goddess Papa.  See also:   atea and papa; pele  Havelok the Dane   (of the lake haven)   In  medieval northern legends, hero whose exploits  are   recorded   in   many   13th-century   works,  including an English one,   Havelok the Dane   (c.  1280–1300).  When King Aethelwold of England was  about   to   die   he   committed   his   only   child,  Goldborough, to Earl Godrich of Cornwall,  who swore to protect the girl and give her in  marriage to a strong and handsome man. In  Denmark, when King Birkaybeyn was on his  deathbed, he entrusted his son Havelok and  his two girls to the care of Earl Godard. The  evil earl, however, had the two girls killed, and  Havelok was given to Grim, a fisherman, who  was to kill the boy. But one night in his cot -  tage Grim saw a flame come out of the mouth  of the sleeping boy. He looked at the boy and  discovered a “king’s mark” on his shoulder.  Knowing this meant that the boy would one  day be a king, he escaped with Havelok and his  own family to England.  When Havelok grew up he entered the  service of the cook of Earl Godrich of Corn -  wall. He became known for his strength and  kindness. When the earl heard of Havelok he  decided the lad should marry Princess Gold -  borough. Havelok took his wife to Grimsby,  but at night Goldborough cried because she  had married below her station. Then she saw  a bright light come out of the mouth of the  sleeping Havelok. She saw a gold cross on his  shoulder.  Suddenly an angel’s voice said, “Goldbor -  ough, do not cry. Havelok is a king’s son. He  shall be king of England and Denmark, and  you shall be his queen.”  Happy that she now had a king for a hus -  band, Goldborough sailed with Havelok for  Denmark, where because of his magic flame  Havelok   was   made   king.   Earl   Godard   was  sentenced by the people, flayed, drawn, and  hanged. After four years Havelok returned to  England, conquered Godrich, and was crowned  king of England in London.  hawk   A bird of prey with a hooked beak  and powerful claws. The cult of the hawk or  falcon is one of the oldest in Egypt, where  the bird was was identified with various sky  or sun gods, such as the Horus gods and Ra.  The bird also was identified with Osiris, the  god of the dead. The main center of worship  was at Hieraconpolis (hawk city). According to  Herodotus’   Historia   (book 2), the punishment  for killing a hawk was death. In Egypt the hawk  was also sacred to the Greek god Apollo in his  role as diviner. One of the earliest Greek fables,  told by Hesiod in his   Works and Days,   is titled  “The Hawk and the Nightingale.” In it the  hawk is portrayed as a greedy, vicious bird.  See also:   apollo; hawk and the nightin -  gale, the; horus; osiris; ra  Hawk and the Nightingale, The   Aesopic  fable found in Hesiod’s   Work and Days,   written  in the eighth century   b.c.e.   and considered the  earliest known example of the Greek fables.  A hawk caught a nightingale and was car -  rying it high in the sky. The nightingale cried  out, but the hawk was unmoved. It said to the  poor   bird:   “What’s   wrong   with   you?   Why  scream? I’m your master and can do with you  what I want. If I like I can let you go free, or if  I prefer, I can eat you for dinner.”  Moral:   He is a fool who fights with someone  who is stronger than he—he will not only lose the  battle but will also be disgraced.  See also:   aesopic fables; hesiod  Haya-griva   (horse-necked)   In   Hindu  mythology,   a   demon   who   stole   the   sacred  books, the Vedas, as they slipped out of the  Haya-griva   45 

=== 페이지 469 ===
mouth of the god Brahma while he was sleep -  ing. Haya-griva, in one myth, was killed by the  god Vishnu. In a variant account Vishnu took  the form of Hayagriva, recovering the Vedas  from two other demons.  See also:   bhrama; vedas; vishnu  Hayk   In Armenian folklore, hero who freed  his people from the tyranny of King Bel of  Babylonia. Hayk was a handsome giant with  fine limbs, curly hair, bright smiling eyes, and  strong arms. The bow and the triangular arrow  were his weapons. Hayk freed his people, who  lived in the plain of Shinar, from the tyranny of  King Bel and brought them to the mountains  of Armenia. There, however, he placed the  native population in subjugation. The forces  of King Bel pursued Hayk, and the hero shot  an arrow, piercing the chest of the king and  causing his forces to disperse. Hayk’s son was  Armenak, another Armenian hero.  Hayk is used in Armenian as a term for a  giant as well as “great beauty.” St. Gregory of  Narek called the Virgin Mary “Hayk-like.”  See also:   bel  hazel   A small tree of the birch family; in  Norse mythology, sacred to Thor, the thunder  god, and believed to be the actual embodiment  of   lightning.   Medieval   German   Christians  would place hazel twigs in the form of a cross  on windowsills during a storm in the hope of  stilling it. During Halloween, sometimes called  Nutcrack Night in Europe, hazel nuts are put  on the fire to foretell the fate of lovers. This  custom is alluded to in Thomas Gray’s poem  Elegy in a Country Churchyard.   In European  folklore it was the custom for the leader of a  wedding party to carry a hazel wand to ensure  many offspring for the marriage. One medieval  German legend says that Herodias, the wife  of King Herod, who killed John the Baptist,  was in love with the prophet. When his head  was brought to her, she tried to kiss it, but it  drew back and blew hard at her. Herodias was  whirled up to the top of a hazel tree, where she  still sits from midnight to cockcrow, floating in  the air the rest of the time.  See also:   john the baptist; thor  Head and the Tail, The   Jewish fable found  in the Talmud. Once the tail of a snake said to  its head, “How much longer will you lead the  way and drag me behind? Let me lead and you  follow.” “Very well,” the head replied, “you  go first.” So the tail led the way, and the head  followed. Nearing a ditch filled with water,  the tail fell in, dragging the head after him. At  another place, filled with thorn bushes, the tail  and the head became tangled, scratched, and  finally wounded. Is not the head to blame for  agreeing to be led by the tail?  See also:   talmud  heaven and hell   Medieval Judaism, Christ-  ianity, and Islam all believed in a place of reward  for the souls of the just with God and his angels  and a place of punishment for the wicked with  the devils.  Ancient Hebrew religion, as expressed in  the Old Testament, does not have any concept  of heaven for the just. All of the dead, both  good and evil, are sent to Sheol, the under -  world, a dim and hopeless place. Thus, King  Saul, who was hated by God, and the prophet  Samuel, who was loved by God, are both sent  to Sheol. Some passages in the Old Testament  suggest that God had no control over Sheol;  he is concerned only with the living, not the  dead. When Judaism came into more contact  with pagan religions, such as that of the Per -  sians, the idea of heaven and hell developed.  This belief was passed on to the writers of the  New Testament and thence to the Christian  Middle Ages.  The clearest expression of the concept of  heaven is found in   The Divine Comedy   of Dante,  in which the poet is given a glimpse of the  Divine. Dante based his work on 1,000 years  of Christian and pagan folklore and religion.  Islam also based its descriptions of heaven,  or paradise, called   Djanna   (garden), on ear -  452   Hayk

=== 페이지 470 ===
Heaven   (Gustave Doré)  heaven and hell   453

=== 페이지 471 ===
lier Jewish, Christian, and pagan folklore and  mythology.  Sura 47 of the Koran says of heaven that  “therein are rivers of water, which corrupt not;  rivers of milk, whose taste changeth not; and  rivers of wine, delicious to those who quaff it;  And Rivers of honey clarified: and therein are all  kinds of fruit for them from their Lord!” In sura  55, the faithful shall lie “on couches with linings  of brocade .   .   . and the fruit of the two gardens  shall be within easy reach.   .   .   . Therein shall be  the damsels with retiring glances, whom man  nor djinn hath touched before them.”  In Islamic mythology Djanna (like Dante’s  Paradiso ) consists of various divisions: Gannat al  ’Huld, or The Garden of Eternity (sura 25), Dâr  as Salâm, or The Abode of Peace (sura 6), Dâr al  Qarâr, or The Abode of Rest (sura 40), Gannat  Hadn, or The Garden of Eden (sura 9), Gannat  al Mâwâ, or The Garden of Resort (sura 32),  Gannat al Na’hîm, or The Garden of Pleasure  (sura 6), Gannat al Hilliyûn, or The Garden of  the Most High (sura 83), and Gannat al Pirdaus,  or The Garden of Paradise (sura 18).  From the various descriptions in the Koran,  heaven is the realization of all that a dweller in  a hot, parched, and barren land could desire—  shade, water, fruit, rest, pleasant women, young  men, and alcohol (denied to Muslims during  their lifetimes).  In later Islamic writings Djanna is repre -  sented as a pyramid, or cone, consisting of the  eight divisions. At the top is the fabulous tree  sidret-elmounteha.   In   The Ascension of Muham -  mad,   a work in which Muhammad describes his  journey through the various heavens (Muham -  mad was not the author), he says:  We attained the   sidret-el-mounteha.   That  which is thus called is a large tree, some  of whose branches are of emerald, others  of pearl, with foliage similar to elephants’  ears. Its fruits are of considerable size.  From the foot of the tree gush four springs  which flow into as many canals. Two of  these canals are open to the skies, but the  two others are covered.   .   .   . The water of  these two rivers is whiter than milk and  sweeter than honey. Angels coming toward  me, greeted me, and brought three gob -  lets, which they presented to me. In one  was milk, in another wine, and in the third  was honey.  On the leaves of the tree are the names of  all of the people in the world. After sunset on  the night of the 15th of Ramadan each year the  leaves with the names of those who are to die  during the year fall from the tree.  Djanna also contains a fountain, Salsabil  (sura 76), signifying water flowing gently down  the throat. It may also refer to wine, since it will  be lawful to drink wine in paradise, although it  is forbidden Muslims on earth.  The Christian heaven makes no provision  for animals, but the Islamic Djanna admits  10 animals into its quarters. They are Noah’s  dove; Abraham’s ram, which was sacrificed in  place of Isaac; Moses’ ox; Balaam’s ass; King  Solomon’s ant; the Queen of Sheba’s lapwing  454   heaven and hell  Hell

=== 페이지 472 ===
heaven and hell   455  The Gate of Hell   (William Blake)

=== 페이지 473 ===
Balkis;   Jonah’s   whale;   the   Islamic   prophet  Saleh’s shecamel; and Borak, the fabulous ani -  mal who took Muhammad to heaven.  Jewish,   Christian,   and   Moslem   concepts  of hell are quite similar. In   The Divine Comedy  Dante gives an elaborate description of hell  in which he is guided by Vergil, the ancient  Roman poet who was believed to be a magician  during the Middle Ages.  Dante’s description of hell was inspired by  1,000 years of Christian myth and legend. In  one   early   nonscriptural   Christian   work,   St.  Peter describes hell: “And I saw another place  right opposite, rough and being the place of  punishment.   And   those   who   are   punished  there and the punishing angels had their robes  dark; as the color of the air of the place is also  dark; and some people were hung up by their  tongues: they were those who had blasphemed  the   path   of   righteousness;   and   underneath  them a bright baneful fire was lit.”  Descriptions of hell such as this were the  source for the elaborate punishments meted  out in Dante’s   Inferno.   Another source that  may have influenced Dante, since it also had its  effects on   Hell   Christian legend, is found in the  Pistis Sophia,   a third-century work of Christian  Gnostics. Gnosticism, which had many forms,  taught that there are two gods, one good God  (the father of Jesus) and one evil God (the cre -  ator God of the Old Testament). This heresy  also held that the Divine Spark, the soul, had  to escape from the body, since physical matter  was evil because it was controlled by evil spir -  its. Only through the   gnosis   (knowledge) of the  unknown god and the redeemer who comes to  earth could one be saved, but this was limited  to only a few.  The   Pistis Sophia   reveals all of the elaborate  machinery of hell. In one of its sections Mary  Magdalene asks Jesus to describe the various  regions of hell. Jesus replies: “The outer dark -  ness is a huge dragon, with its tail in its mouth;  it is outside the world and surroundeth it com -  pletely. There are many regions of punishment  therein, for there are in it twelve dungeons of  horrible torment. In each dungeon there is a  ruler.”  These rulers are, according to the   Pistis  Sophia,   various demons who are then named  and given elaborate descriptions.  The medieval machinery of hell passed on  to the Protestant reformers, and even though  they rejected the doctrine of Purgatory, they  accepted the “devil and all his works.”  In Islam the name given hell is Jahannam or  Djahannam, derived from the Hebrew valley  of Hinnom (Josh. 15:8) in the Old Testament.  In many translations of the Koran the word is  translated as hell or Gehenna.  The Koran frequently mentions Jahannam,  although its precise physical image is unclear.  Sometimes it appears to be a monster, as when  in   sura   139   Allah   says   Jahannam   “shall   be  brought nigh” on the Day of Judgment. Accord -  ing to Islamic tradition Jahannam walks on four  legs, each of which is bound by 70,000 rings.  On each of them are 70 thousand demons,  every one of which is strong enough to destroy  mountains. A moving Jahannam makes buzzing,  groaning, rattling sounds. Sparks and smoke  come out of its mouth. When it is still separated  from mortals by 1,000 years, it will break loose  from the demons and throw itself on the people  assembled for the Last Judgment.  Alongside this image of a monster hell,  resembling in many ways the Christian con -  cept of a dragon-mouthed hell popular during  the Middle Ages, is the belief that Jahannam  has seven gates (sura 39). Islamic tradition has  elaborated on the Koranic statement. Accord -  ingly, Jahannam is situated under the pedestal  of the world, above the bull Kuyuta and the  fish Bahamut (corresponding to the Behemoth  and Leviathan in the Bible), who support the  earth. Jahannam is composed of seven stories  forming a vast crater, where sinners are pun -  ished according to the kind and importance of  their deeds, as in Dante’s   Inferno.   The seven  divisions of Jahannam are Jahannam proper, or  Gehenna (sura 19), Lathâ, or the Flaming Fire  (sura 70), Hutamah, or the Raging Fire that  456   heaven and hell

=== 페이지 474 ===
splits everything to pieces (sura 104), Sa’hîr, or  the Blaze (sura 4), Saqar, or the Scorching Fire  (sura 54), Gahîm, or the Fierce Fire (sura 2),  and Hâiyeh, or the Abyss (sura 51).  Above the vast crater of Jahannam is Al-Sirat  (or Se-Sirat, Arabic for “the path”), the bridge  leading   to   paradise,   the   entrance   of   which  is guarded by the angel Ridwan. Al-Sirat is  “stretched over the back of Jahannam, sharper  than a sword and finer than a hair. The feet of  unbelievers slip upon it, by the decrees of Allah,  and fall with them into the fire. But the feet of  the believers stand firm upon it, by the grace of  Allah, and so they pass to Abiding Abode.”  At the lowest stage of Jahannam is a tree  called Zakkum, which has heads of demons  for flowers; a caldron of boiling and stinking  pitch; and a well that reaches to the bottom of  all things.  The time of punishment allotted to sinners  varies with the interpretation of some Koranic  texts. Sura 11 says: “The damned shall be cast  into the fire .   .   . they shall dwell there so long  as the heavens and the earth shall last, unless  Allah wills otherwise.” Yet another passage in  the Koran (sura 23) reads: “Those who have  destroyed themselves in Jahannam   .   .   . shall  dwell there forever.”  See also:   abraham; balaam; gnosticism;  isaac; jonah; moses; muhammad; noah; peter,  st.; ramadan; saleh; samuel; sheol; saul  Hebe   (youth)   In   Greek   mythology,   cup -  bearer of the gods, daughter of Zeus and Hera.  She was replaced in the position by the hand -  some youth Ganymede, whom Zeus abducted  and raped. Hebe is cited in Milton’s “L’Allegro”  (26–29), Spenser’s   Ruines of Time   (384–385) and  Keats’s   Endymion   (4.415–9). Hebe is sometimes  referred to as the wife of Heracles after he was  deified.  See also:   ganymede; zeus  Hebrus   In   Greek   mythology,   a   river   in  Thrace with sand of gold. Orpheus’s head,  dismembered body, and lyre were thrown into  the Hebrus by the Bacchants after they tore  him to pieces. The river received its name  from Hebrus, son of Cassandra, and a king of  Thrace, who was said to have drowned him -  self there. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 4) and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 11) tell of the river.  See also:   aeneid, the;   cassandra; orpheus;  ovid  Hecate   (she who works her will)   In Greek  mythology, pre-Hellenic goddess of the under -  world, later identified as a form of Artemis. In  Hecate   45   Hebe

=== 페이지 475 ===
some accounts she is said to be the daughter  of Perses and Asteria or of Zeus and Demeter.  Hecate   was   worshipped   at   crossroads   and  portrayed as a three-headed or three-bodied  woman. Her functions and powers are described  in detail in Hesiod’s   Theogony.   The heroine  in Euripides’   Medea   invokes Hecate, who was  noted   for   her   black   magic   and   sorcery.   In  Shakespeare’s   Macbeth   (3.5) Hecate appears as  queen of the witches. In   King Lear   (1.1.112) the  old king says: “For, by the sacred radiance of the  sun, / The mysteries of Hecate, and the night.”  William Blake’s watercolor illustrating   Macbeth  also portrays the dark goddess. Hecate’s epithets  were Enodia (the wayside goddess) and Trioditis  (goddess of the meeting of three routes).  See also:   asteria; demeter; medea; zeus  Hecatommithi   (hundred   tales)   An   Italian  collection   of   tales   by   Giambattista   Giraldi  Cinthio   (1504–1573)   that   contains   many  European folk motifs. The collection influ -  enced the English collection   Palace of Pleasure  (1566), providing Shakespeare with plots for  Othello   and   Measure for Measure.  See also:   motif  Hector   (holding   fast)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, eldest son of King Priam of Troy and  Hecuba; brother of Aesaus, Cassandra, Creusa,  Deiphobus,   Helenus,   Paris,   Polydorus,  Polyxena, and Troilus; married to Andromache;  father of Astyanax (Scamandrius). Hector is the  Trojan hero of Homer’s   Iliad.   He was killed  by Achilles and his dead body dragged around  the walls of Troy. King Priam asked for his  son’s body, and Hector’s funeral ends Homer’s  epic. Numerous episodes from his life appear  in art and literature: the slaying of Patroclus  (Achilles’ male lover); Hector’s combat with  Ajax; his farewell to King Priam and Hecuba;  his farewell to his wife, Andromache; his death;  and King Priam begging Achilles for his son’s  body. Hector appears in Homer’s   Iliad,   Vergil’s  Aeneid   (book 1), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (books  13, 14), and Shakespeare’s bitter play   Troilus  and Cressida,   which ends with “Hector is dead;  there is no more to say.”  See   also:   achilles; andromache; asty -  anax; cassandra; hecuba;   iliad, the ; ovid;  paris; polyxena; priam  Hecuba   (Hekabe)   (moving   far   off)   In  Greek mythology, second wife of King Priam  of Troy, mother of 19 of his 50 sons and 12 of  his daughters; daughter of Dymas of Phrygia  and Evagora or Glaucippe, of the river god  Cisseus, or of the river god Sangarius and  Metope; sister of Asius. Among her children  are Hector, Paris, Cassandra, Polydorus, and  Polyxena. After the fall of Troy she was taken  into captivity by the victorious Greeks. She  witnessed the death of her daughter Polyxena  and discovered that her son Polydorus had  45    Hecatommithi  Hector and Ajax   (John Flaxman)  The Meeting of Hector and Andromache  (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 476 ===
been treacherously murdered by the Thracian  king Polymnestor. Insane with sorrow, Hecuba  beguiled Polymnestor into a secret place and  tore out his eyes. While she was railing at  the Greeks, she was transformed into a bitch.  Hecuba appears in Euripides’ plays   The Trojan  Woman   and   Hecabe   and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 13) and is frequently cited by Shakespeare  in his plays.  See also:   cassandra; hector; paris; polyx -  ena; priam; troy  Hegira   (Hijra)   (departure)   Term   used   in  Islam for the migration from Mecca to Yathrib,  later Medina, made by Muhammad. The day of  his arrival at Medina is not precisely known—16  June in some accounts and 30 September in  others. The year usually assigned to it is 622. All  dates in Islam are reckoned from the Hegira.  See also:   muhammad  Heidrun   (Heithron)   (bright)   In   Norse  mythology,   a   she-goat   who   provides   mead  for Valhalla. According to the   Prose Edda,   she  “feeds on the leaves of a very famous tree called  Laerath, and from her teats flows mead in such  great abundance that every day a caldron, large  enough to hold more than would suffice for all  the heroes, is filled with it.”  See also:   einherjar;   prose edda ; valhalla  Heiki-Monogatari   (tales of the Heike clan)  (13th   century)   Japanese   historical   romance  telling of the conflict between the Heike (Taira)  and the Minamoto (Genji) families.  The work was one of the most popular in  medieval Japan, recited by minstrel-priests. It  tells how the Heike, an all-powerful family in  Japan, are eventually brought low. The novel  places heavy emphasis on Buddhist thought,  particularly   on   the   evanescence   of   worldly  glory. Toward the close of the work the Clois -  tered Emperor states: “All these pleasures too  were as fleeting as empty dreams of dreams and  empty delusions of delusions. All is vanity, as  evanescent as the eternal turning of the wheel.  Sad are the Five Signs of Decay for celestial  beings! How much more so should it be for  us, the sentient beings of the world!” (Hiroshi  Kitagawa and Bruce Tsuchida translation).  The influence of   Heike-Monogatari   on later  Japanese literature was immense. Many of its  episodes supplied plots for No plays and later  drama. Two other works, the   Gempei Seishuiki  (Records of the Rise and Fall of the Minamoto  and Taira Clans) and   Heiji Monogatari   (Tales of  Heiji) deal with the same subject.  See also:   no  Heimdall   (world gleam)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, one of the Aesir, the son of nine mothers,  the god who acts as watchman for the gods;  sometimes called Rig. He has nine lives. It is  his job to announce with his horn, Gjallar-horn,  the approach of the frost giants when they come  to battle the gods at Ragnarok, the end of the  world. Heimdall will be killed by the evil god  Loki, who in turn will be killed in battle.  The   Prose Edda   describes Heimdall as a  “powerful deity” who “requires less sleep than  a bird and sees by night as well as by day, a  hundred miles around him. So acute is his ear  that no sound escapes him, for he can even hear  the grass growing on the earth and the wool on  a sheep’s back.” He sacrificed one of his ears  in the well under Yggdrasil, just as Odin had  sacrificed one eye.  In the   Poetic Edda   the poem   Rigsthula   (The  Song of Rig) tells how Heimdall repopulated  the earth after some disaster. He fathers serfs,  freemen, earls, and kings. Heimdall lives in  Himinbjorb   (heaven’s   cliffs)   at   the   end   of  Bifrost; his horse is called Gulltopp and his  sword, Hofund (head).  See   also:   bifrost;   gjallar-horn;   loki;  poetic edda ;   prose edda ; ragnarok  Heinrich von Aue   (home ruler)   In medi -  eval northern legends, hero who appears in  a   12th-century   poem,   Der   arme   Heinrich.  Heinrich was a nobleman who was struck with  leprosy. He was told that only a virgin who  Heinrich von Aue   45 

=== 페이지 477 ===
would die in his place could restore his health.  He did not believe that any such thing would  happen, and he gave away all of his riches to  the poor. He went to live with a poor tenant  farmer who was one of his vassals. The daugh -  ter of the farmer learned of the remedy and  offered to die in Heinrich’s place. When this  was known, Heinrich was cured. Longfellow, in  his poetic drama   The Golden Legend   (not to be  confused with the medieval collection of saints’  lives) used the legend as the basis for his plot.  In some medieval accounts Heinrich is called  Prince Henry of Hoheneck.  Hel   (Hela, Hell)   (concealer)   In Norse myth-  ology, goddess of death; daughter of the evil  god Loki and the giantess Angurboda; sister  of Fenris and the serpent Midgard. Hel ruled  over Nifelheim, where Odin gave her power  over nine worlds or regions. Hel originally  meant “grave,” with the personification com -  ing later. She lives under one root of Yggdrasil,  the frost giants live under another, and humans  live under a third root. The   Prose Edda   says “all  who die through sickness or old age” are Hel’s  subjects. Matthew Arnold in his narrative poem  Balder Dead   writes:  Hela   into   Niflheim   thou   threw’st   And  gav’st her nine unlighted worlds to rule, A  queen, and empire over all the dead.  Hel lived in the palace called Elvidner (mis -  ery); her dish was Hunger and her knife, Starva -  tion. She fed on the brains and marrow of people.  Hel was believed to leave her home occasionally  to roam the earth on her threelegged white  horse. In times of pestilence or famine she was  said to be using a rake if a part of the population  escaped death, and a broom when whole villages  and provinces were depopulated, as during the  Black Death of the Middle Ages. The English  word   hell   comes from the name of the goddess.  See   also:   angurboda; fenrir; midgard;  nifelheim;   prose edda  Helena, St.   (bright one)   (c. 255–330)   In  Christian   legend,   empress,   mother   of   the  emperor Constantine; patron saint of dyers,  nailsmiths, and needle makers. Invoked against  fire and thunder. Feast, 8 August.  The legend of St. Helena is bound up in the  discovery of the true cross. According to the  account in   The Golden Legend,   written in the  13th   St. Helena (Dürer)   century by Jacobus de  Hel   (Johannes Gehrts)   Invention of the Cross  460   Hel

=== 페이지 478 ===
Voragine, Helena was probably of British birth,  though her parentage and place of birth are still  disputed. She married Constantius Cholorus  and was the mother of Constantine the Great.  Her great desire was to find the actual cross  on which Jesus had been crucified. She went  to Jerusalem with an army and found three  crosses at Calvary. To find out which one of the  three was Jesus’ cross, she had each cross touch  the body of a dead man. When the true cross  touched the dead body, the man came back to  life. She gave part of the true cross to her son  Constantine as well as the nails. Her finding  of the true cross was celebrated by a Christian  feast observed on 3 May called Invention of the  Cross, from Latin   invenire.   The feast was abol -  ished in 1960 by the Roman Catholic Church  as having no historical foundation. St. Helena is  often portrayed holding a large cross. She wears  a crown and imperial robes. Paolo Veronese,  Agnolo Gaddi, and Piero della Francesca all  painted scenes from her life and legend.  The Island of St. Helena in the South Atlantic  was discovered on St. Helena’s Day in 1501 by the  Portuguese. Napoleon was exiled to this island in  1815 and lived there until he died in 1821.  See also:   constantine the great;   golden  legend, the  Helen of Troy   In Greek mythology, the  most beautiful woman in the world; daughter  of Zeus and Leda; married to Menelaus; moth -  er of Hermione, Pleisthenes, and Nicostratus.  Zeus, in the form of a swan, seduced Leda,  who produced two eggs. From the first hatched  Helen and her brother Polydeuces (or Pollux).  From the second egg came Clytemnestra and  Castor. (The second egg, according to some  accounts, was fathered by Tyndareus, the king  of Sparta and husband of Leda.) When Helen  was a young girl she was abducted by Theseus  and   Pirithous   and   rescued   by   her   brothers  Castor and Polydeuces, the Dioscuri. In some  accounts she was the mother of Iphigenia by  Theseus. She was so beautiful that all the avail -  able princes in Greece wished to marry her. To  calm the intense rivalry Odysseus had all of the  suitors swear to support the husband whom  Helen would choose and to avenge any wrong  to the couple caused by the marriage. After the  agreement Helen chose Menelaus, brother of  Agamemnon, who was husband of her sister  St. Helena   (Albrecht Dürer)  Helen of Troy   46   Aphrodite Presenting Helen to Paris  (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 479 ===
Clytemnestra. Helen and Menelaus seemed to  live happily until the day Paris abducted her.  (Paris had been promised Helen by Aphrodite  as a reward for naming Aphrodite the “fairest”  in the Judgment of Paris.) Some accounts say  Helen accompanied Paris willingly to Troy;  others say she was taken by force. In any event,  Menelaus rallied all of Greece to his aid, and  the result was the Trojan War.  While in Troy, Helen bore Paris many chil -  dren, all of whom died in infancy. After Paris’s  death she was briefly married to Deiphobus.  When Troy fell through the trick of the wooden  horse,   Helen   was   returned   to   her   husband  Menelaus, who took her back as if nothing had  happened. She then lived with Menelaus until  her death. But some accounts say Helen was  hanged by the maids of Argive Polyxo to avenge  the death of Tlepolemus at Troy.  Some scholars believe Helen was originally  a pre-Greek goddess with a tree cult (one in  which the goddess was hanged from a tree,  which might account for one version of her  death) who was worshipped in Laconia and  Rhodes. In the Homeric epics, however, Helen  is entirely human. Homer’s   Iliad   mentions that  the Trojans treated her kindly, and in the   Odys -  sey   she is described as a hospitable wife. A later  myth not included in Homer, devised to save  her reputation, says that a phantom, not the real  Helen, went to Troy. This myth is cited in Plato’s  Phaedrus   and is followed in Euripides’   Helen   and  Richard Strauss’s opera   Die Ägyptische Helena  (The Egyptian Helen) with a libretto by Hof -  mannsthal. In general, however, most poets take  a judgmental view of her behavior, among them  Ovid, Seneca, and Vergil. She appears in Eurip -  ides’   Helen,   Ovid’s   Heroides   (16), Shakespeare’s  Troilus and Cressida,   W. B. Yeats’s “Leda and the  Swan,” Tennyson’s “A Dream of Fair Women,”  Brooke’s “Menelaus and Helen,” and Lang’s  Helen of Troy.   Dante (Hell, Second Circle) places  Helen among those driven by lust. Ronsard’s  Sonnets pour Hélène   were written for Hélène de  Abduction of Helen of Troy  462   Helen of Troy

=== 페이지 480 ===
Surgeres, his last love. In Goethe’s   Faust   (Part  2) Faust marries Helen, who symbolizes all  that is most beautiful in ancient Greek life. In  Marlowe’s play   Dr. Faustus   Helen also appears  to Faust, and hers is “the face which launched  a thousand ships.” Homer never describes her  features, and she has not frequently appeared  in art, though David’s   Paris and Helen   portrays  the couple, and a work from the school of Fra  Angelico portrays   The Rape of Helen.  See also:   agamemnon; aphrodite; castor  and polydeuces; dioscuri;   iliad, the;   iphige -  nia; leda; menelaus; odysseus;   odyssey, the;  paris; swan; troy; zeus  Helenus   (of the moon?)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a Trojan soothsayer, son of King Priam  and   twin   brother   of   Cassandra;   married   to  Andromache   after   both   had   been   given   as  slaves to Pyrrhus, father of Cestrinus. Helenus  said Troy could not be taken by the Greeks  unless   the   sacred   Palladium   (an   image   of  Athena) was removed from it. He was the only  one of Priam’s children to survive the war, and  he entertained Aeneas on his way from Troy  to Italy. He gave Aeneas a plumed helmet.  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 6), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  3), and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13) tell of  Helenus.  See   also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   androm -  ache; athena; cassandra;   iliad, the;   ovid;  priam  Heliades   In   Greek   mythology,   Aegiale,  Aegle, and Aetheria, sisters of Phaethon and  daughters of Apollo (or Helios) and Clymene.  They grieved so much over Phaethon’s death  that they were transformed into poplars. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 2) tell of their fate.  See also:   apollo; ovid; phaethon  Helios   (sun)   In Greek mythology, a Titan  sun   god,   son   of   the   Titans   Hyperion   and  Theia; brother of Eos and Selene; married  to   Perseis   (Perse);   father   of   Aëtes,   Circe,  Phaethon, Pasiphaë, and Perses, as well as of  seven sons by Rhode and several daughters by  Clymene and Naera. In classical mythology  the Greeks identified Helios with Apollo or  Hyperion. When Zeus divided the universe,  Helios was either away or forgotten, and there -  fore he received no part. To appease him Zeus  gave Helios the island of Rhodes, his main  cult center, where the Colossus at Rhodes was  dedicated to his worship. Helios drove across  the sky each day in his quadriga, a four-horse  chariot. In Roman mythology he was also called  Sol. Among his epithets are Acamas (untiring),  Panderces (all-seeing), and Terpimbrotos (he  who makes mortals rejoice). In his   Laws   Plato  advocates a cult of Apollo and Helios, so as to  combine ancient ritual and rational thought.  Spenser’s   Prothalamion   (4) and Robert Herrick’s  “Corinna’s Going a-Maying” cite the god.  See   also:   apollo; colossus at rhodes;  eos; hyperion; pasiphaë; phaethon; selene;  titans; zeus  heliotrope   (turn-to-sun)   A fragrant, flow -  ered   herb   of   the   borage   family.   In   Greek  mythology, the sun god Apollo and his love,  the water nymph Clytie, account for the helio -  trope’s origin. The nymph fell in love with  the god and he with her, but in a short time  Apollo grew tired of the girl. She then sat on a  riverbank for nine days and nights, taking nei -  ther food nor water nor sleep, only watching  the chariot of Apollo move across the heavens  from sunrise to dusk. The gods, taking pity on  her, turned her into a flower, a heliotrope. A  bloodstone, green quartz with red veins, used  to be called a heliotrope. When it was placed  in water, it turned the sun’s rays to blood color.  The stone also had the power to render its  bearer invisible.  See also:   apollo  Hemera   In Greek mythology, a name for  Day, a daughter of Erebus and Nox (night).  Hemera, along with Aether (Light), dethroned  their parents and seized control.  See also:   nox  Hemera   463

=== 페이지 481 ===
Heng-Ê   In Chinese mythology, goddess of  the moon, married to the Divine Archer, Hou-  I. She stole the drug, or dew, of immortality,  fleeing to the moon. In some accounts she is  said to have been changed into a frog or toad,  though the moon in Chinese mythology is also  inhabited by a hare. She is sometimes portrayed  as a human figure riding a three-legged frog.  Hengist and Horsa   (stallion and horse)   In  Anglo-Saxon   mythology,   semilegendary   lead -  ers of the Jutes, who landed in England in 449.  Horsa died in the battle of Aylesford c. 455,  while Hengist ruled in Kent until his death in  488. Their cult may have sacrificed horses as part  of their ritual. There were many twin legendary  figures in antiquity, such as the Dioscuri Castor  and Pollux, Romulus and Remus, and others.  See   also:   castor and polydeuces; had -  dingjar; romulus and remus  Henry,   St.   (home   ruler)   (972–1024)   In  Christian legend, Emperor Henry II, husband  of St. Cunegund. Feast, 15 July.  Elected emperor in 1002, Henry fought  against the pagans of Poland and Franconia,  aided by Sts. Lawrence, George, and Adrian.  He married Cunegund, and both took vows  of chastity. Once the devil convinced Henry  that Cunegund had committed adultery with  their bishop. Henry commanded his wife “to  walk barefoot upon white-hot plowshares a  distance of 15 feet.” Cunegund called on Christ  to vindicate her honor. In anger Henry struck  her cheek, but a voice from heaven called out:  “The Virgin Mary has delivered Cunegund  who also is a virgin.” At Henry’s death a host  of demons arrived to carry off his soul, but St.  Lawrence brought a golden bowl and placed it  on the balance scales in favor of Henry. The  emperor’s soul then fled to heaven. A year after  his death, Cunegund became a nun.  Henry is portrayed in medieval art in com -  plete armor with his imperial crown, sword,  and orb. He is often shown bearing a model of  Bamberg cathedral, which he founded.  See   also:   adrian,   st.;   george,   st.;  lawrence, st.  Hephaestus   (fiercely   shining)   In   Greek  mythology, smith and fire god, son of Zeus and  Hera or possibly of Hera alone; brother of Ares,  Arge, Discordia, Eleithyia, and Hebe; married  to Aphrodite; father of Eros by Aphrodite, of  Camillus by Cabeiro, of Erichthonius by him -  self or Gaea or Attis, of Olenus and Tullius by  Ocrisia, of the two Palici volcanoes by Aetna;  also father of Cercyon. Hephaestus was called  Vulcan or Mulciber by the Romans. He was  born lame and ugly or was made lame by Hera,  who was ashamed of his ugliness and threw him  out of heaven into the sea, where he landed  on the volcanic island of Lemnos. In a variant  account Hephaestus’s lameness resulted when  his father, Zeus, flung him out of heaven for  intervening in a fight between Zeus and Hera.  After being thrown out of heaven, he lived for  nine years with Thetis and Eurynome, water  nymphs. He made numerous metal works for  them including a metal throne, which was used  to trap his mother, Hera. No one could free  her except Hephaestus. Dionysus was called  on, got Hephaestus drunk, and brought him  back to Olympus, where he freed his mother  from   the   seat.   Hephaestus   then   was   mar -  ried to Aphrodite, goddess of love. The god -  dess, however, preferred Ares for her sexual  partner. Aphrodite and Ares were discovered  464   Heng-Ê  Thesis and Eurynome Receiving the Infant  Hephaestus   (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 482 ===
by Helios, the Titan sun god, who reported  their affair to Hephaestus. Hephaestus placed  a net over the bed in which the two deities  were making love. Then he called the gods to  witness the two in sexual intercourse. Some  accounts say Hephaestus created Pandora, the  first   woman,   or   that   he   created   mankind.  Among Hephaestus’s most famous artworks are  the arms for Achilles, the arms for Aeneas, the  shield of Heracles, the necklace (or girdle) of  Harmonia, and the scepter of Agamemnon.  Hephaestus appears in Homer’s   Iliad   and  Odyssey,   Hesiod’s   Theogony,   the   Homeric  Hymns, Vergil’s   Aeneid,   and Milton’s   Paradise  Lost   (book 1.742–46), where the poet captures  Hephaestus’s   fall   from   heaven.   Milton   says  Hephaestus   was   the   architect   of   Pandemo -  nium, the council hall of hell. In Greek art  Hephaestus is often portrayed helping Zeus  give birth to Athena or delivering Achilles’  arms to Thetis.  See   also:   aeneid, the ; aphrodite; ares;  arge; eros; gaea; harmonia; hebe; helios;  hera;   iliad, the ;   odyssey, the ; pandora; vul -  can; zeus  Hera   (lady)   In   Greek   mythology,   pre-  Hellenic goddess, later said to be the wife  of   Zeus;   sister   of   Demeter,   Hades,   Hestia,  Poseidon,   and   Zeus.   In   Roman   mythology,  she is called Juno. Her four children by Zeus  are   Hephaestus,   Hebe,   Ares,   and   Ilithyia  (Eileithyia). She was the daughter of Cronus  and   Rhea,   according   to   Hesiod’s   Theogony  (454). Hera’s main function was as goddess  of marriage and the sexual life of women. In  many Greek myths she always appears at odds  with her wandering husband Zeus, constantly  persecuting his numerous mistresses and their  children. Like Zeus, she was swallowed at birth  by her father, Cronus, and rescued by Zeus,  who later, in the form of a cuckoo, seduced  her. Hera is portrayed in Greek and Roman art  as a large, majestic woman, fully clad, wearing  a diadem (in Greek archaic art sometimes a  polos ). Among her attributes are the crow, the  cuckoo, the peacock (because she set the 100  eyes of the all-seeing Argus in its tail), and the  pomegranate   (symbol   of   fruitfulness).   Hera  was worshipped throughout Greece. Her most  famous temples were at the Heraeum at Nemea  in the Argolid, the great temple on the island  of Samos, and the temple at Olympia. At her  Greek festival, the Heraia, a shield was given as  the prize in an athletic contest. Her most com -  mon Homeric epithet is “ox-eyed,” and she is  also known as Parthenia, referring to her role  as a bride. In Spenser’s poem   Epithalamion   he  Hera  Hera   465

=== 페이지 483 ===
asks for the goddess’s blessing on his marriage.  Hera also appears in Tennyson’s   Oenone.  See also:   ares; argus; cuckoo; demeter;  hades; hebe; hephaestus; hesiod: hestia; pea -  cock; pomegranate; poseidon; zeus  Heracles   (glory   of   Hera)   In   Greek   and  Roman mythology, hero noted for his immense  strength. The Roman spelling of his name,  Hercules, is frequently encountered in English  literature. He was the son of Zeus and Alcmena.  Alcmena had been seduced by Zeus when he  assumed the form of her husband, Amphitryon.  Heracles was loved by his father, Zeus, but  Hera,   Zeus’s   ever-jealous   wife,   constantly  sought Heracles’ destruction. She sent two ser -  pents to kill Heracles, but the child strangled  them with his bare hands. When he was a youth,  Heracles killed the Thespian lion that had been  ravaging Amphitryon’s flocks. He then wore its  skin as a cloak, with the lion’s head forming a  hood. At one point Hera caused Heracles to go  mad, leading him to kill his wife, Megara, and  their children. As penance he had to submit  to 12 labors under Eurystheus. The first labor  was to slay the Nemean lion. He drove it into  a cave, strangled it, and then skinned it. The  second labor was to slay the Lernaenan Hydra,  a many-headed monster that grew a new head  to replace each one decapitated. Heracles cut  off   each   head   while   his   charioteer,   Iolaus,  seared the stump with pitch so that another  head could not grow. The third labor was to  capture the Erymanthian boar alive. Heracles  captured it and returned with it to Eurystheus,  who jumped into a jar out of fright at the sight  of it. The fourth labor was to capture alive the  golden-horned Cerynean hind. He pursued it  for a year and finally captured it at a stream  as it was drinking. The fifth labor was to drive  off the bronze-beaked, arrow-feathered birds  infesting the Stymphalian marsh. Athena gave  Heracles   a   bronze   rattle   that   when   shaken  startled the birds. They rose in flight, and  Heracles killed many with arrows. The rest  fled to the Black Sea. The sixth labor was to  clean, in one day, the dung of 3,000 cattle  from the stables of King Augeas of Elis. The  hero diverted the rivers Peneus and Alpheus  from their regular courses and sent them to  clean   the   stables.   When   Augeas   refused   to  pay Heracles one-tenth of the herd, Heracles  killed him. The seventh labor was to capture  the   mad   Cretan   bull.   Heracles   brought   it  back to Eurystheus, who let it loose to ravage  the land. It was later killed by Theseus. The  eighth labor was to kill the man-eating mares  of King Diomedes of Thrace. Heracles caught  the king and fed him to the mares. The ninth  labor was to capture the girdle of the Amazons.  Heracles went to Queen Hippolyta, who pos -  sessed the girdle and was willing to give it to  him. Hera, still jealous, convinced the Amazons  that their queen was going to be killed. They  attacked Heracles; he defeated them and killed  Hippolyta.   He   took   the   girdle   along   with  Antiope, sister of Hippolyta, as captive. The  Heracles   (Albrecht Dürer)  466   Heracles

=== 페이지 484 ===
girdle was given to Admente, and Antiope was  married to Theseus. The tenth labor was to  fetch the red cattle of Geryon. The monster  Geryon, who had three bodies, lived at Gades.  His cattle were guarded by the two-headed dog  Orthus and a shepherd, both of whom were  slain by Heracles. The eleventh labor was to  gather the Golden Apples of the Hesperides.  The Golden Apples were guarded by a dragon,  which Heracles slew, but the apples were later  returned by Athena to the garden because they  were sacred and could not survive except in  the garden. The twelfth labor was to fetch the  dog Cerberus from the underworld. Purifying  himself at the mysteries of Eleusis, Heracles,  guided by Hermes and Athena, descended to  Hades and captured the monster, which was  later returned to the underworld.  Other adventures in Heracles’ life were his  joining of the Argonaut expedition for a short  time under Jason, his madness when he killed his  male lover Iphitus, and his return to the Oracle  at Delphi to seek a cure. When the priestess  refused an answer, Heracles seized the sacred  tripod, saying he would set up another oracle.  Apollo rushed in, and Heracles fought the god,  only to be stopped by a thunderbolt hurled  by Zeus. The priestess then gave Heracles the  oracle he wished. Heracles assisted the gods  in their battle against the giants. He married  Deianira, Meleager’s sister, who bore him five  children. Believing it would restore his love  for her, she sent her husband a poisoned robe  that burned his flesh. While the flames arose, a  cloud descended, and Heracles was welcomed  in heaven. Hera was then reconciled to the  hero, who later married Hebe, goddess of youth  and   spring.   Heracles   was   popular   in   Greek  cult, where he was a demigod, and among the  Romans as a hero who fought against evil.  Heracles appears in Sophocles’   Trachinian  Women   and   Philoctetes,   Euripides’   Alcestis   and  The Madness of Heracles,   and Seneca’s   Hercules  Furens.   In the Middle Ages and the Renaissance,  Heracles’ myth inspired Chaucer’s   Monk’s Tale  and part of the incomplete   Canterbury Tales,  which gives a summary of his life and deeds. In  art perhaps the most famous image of the hero  is the Farnese Heracles, discovered in 1540 in  the Baths of Caracalla in Rome. It portrays the  hero leaning on a club after his 12 labors, and  it is ascribed to the Athenian sculptor Glycon  (first century   b.c.e. ). The myth of the Choice  of Heracles, first written down by Xenophon in  his   Memoirs of Socrates,   tells how the hero was  approached by two beautiful women before his  12 labors. One woman offered Heracles plea -  sure and a life of ease, and the other offered  him a life of duty and labor for humankind.  Obviously, the hero chose duty, as portrayed in  two cantatas called   The Choice of Heracles,   one  by Bach and one by Handel.  See also:   alcmena; amphitryon; athena;  diomedes; golden apples of the hesperides;  hades; hesperides; hermes; hera; zeus  Herdsman and the Weaver, The   A Ko-  rean tale reminiscent of the flood myth, includ -  ing motifs of helpful animals (motif numbers  B300–B349).   Once   there   lived   a   king   who  Herdsman and the Weaver, The   46   Nemean lion

=== 페이지 485 ===
reigned over all the heavens. His daughter could  weave the most beautiful cloth in the whole  world, and she spent her childhood in front  of her loom until it was time for her to marry.  After searching the kingdom far and wide, the  king found a young herdsman who would make  a fine husband for his daughter. They were mar -  ried and spent their time playing in the fields  together, for they were still very young. In time,  the cattle were not tended to and the weaving  had little interest for the young girl. The king  pointed out their failure to work and care to for  their animals and weaving. He decided to punish  them, and separated them by sending her to the  Western sky and him to the Eastern sky. Even  though they tried to beg his forgiveness, they  were still made to separate. Finally, the king  decided to let them meet once a year on the  banks of the Milky Way River, and they looked  forward to their brief time together. The river,  however, was wide and they could barely see one  another, and so tears rolled down their cheeks  and ran into the river. Soon the water from the  tears flowed down the river and became rain.  The rain fell and made the ground soggy and  very wet, so much so that a flood began to cover  the ground. All of the animals of the kingdom  were very troubled, and met to decide what to  do. Finally, one of the animals suggested that  they build a bridge for the herdsman and the  weaver so that they could meet. A few crows and  magpies said: “Let us birds do it, we can fly to  the Milky Way River and make ourselves into a  bridge.” This they did, and on the seventh day of  the seventh moon of each year, all of the crows  and magpies would form a giant bridge over the  river so that the herdsman and the weaver could  meet in the middle. They stopped crying imme -  diately, and the flood began to subside. Before  this time the crows and the magpies never lost  any of their feathers, but ever since they decided  to help the young couple, they have lost feathers  on the seventh day of the seventh moon. This  is why everyone in the kingdom is kind to the  crows and magpies.  See also:   crow; magpie  Hermaphroditus   In   Greek   and   Roman  mythology, son of Hermes and Aphrodite. He  was   a   half-man,   half-woman   divinity,   having  been united with the nymph Salmacis to form a  hermaphroditic being. Some scholars believe the  myth is derived from some ancient marriage rites  in which the couples exchanged clothing. The  myth is told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 4).  Many ancient statues portrayed Hermaphroditus.  Bartholomeus   Spranger’s   Hermaphoditus   and  Salmacis   (c. 1581) portrays the two near the  nymph’s pool. After the two were united, the  pool weakened all who drank from it. Spenser’s  Faerie Queene   took the idea of the enfeebling  pool from the ancient myth. Hermaphroditus is  also called Atlantiades and Atlantius.  See   also:   aphrodite;   hermes;   nymphs;  ovid  Hermes   (stone)   In Greek mythology, mes -  senger of the gods, son of Zeus and Maia; called  Mercury   by   the   Romans.   Among   Hermes’  mistresses   (and   the   offspring   produced)   are  Acacallis (Cydon, possibly); Alcidamea (Bubus);  Antianeira   (Eurytus,   Echion);   Aphrodite  (Hermaphroditus, Peitho); Carmenta (Evander);  Chione (Autolycus); Chthonophyle (Polybus);  Clytie (Myrtilus); Eupolemia (Aethalids); Herse  (Cephalus, Ceryx); Penelope or Dryope (Pan);  and   Phylodameia   (Pharis).   He   was   also   the  father of Abderus, Arabus, Chryses, Daphnis,  Eurymedon, Hapalycus, Nephalion, Philocaus,  and possibly Silenus. Hermes is a complex god,  his cult representing various aspects of godly  patronage such as death, thievery, commerce,  wealth, manual skill, and oratory. After his birth  Hermes almost immediately stole Apollo’s cat -  tle. He invented the lyre, which he then gave to  Apollo, who in turn gave Hermes the caduceus.  Hermes appears in   Hymn to Hermes   (one of  the Homeric Hymns ascribed to Homer but not  by him), and in Homer’s   Odyssey   he is sent by  Zeus to tell Odysseus to leave Calypso’s island.  In Vergil’s   Aeneid,   under the name Mercury, he  tells the hero Aeneas to leave Dido and continue  on his journey. His name is associated with  46    Hermaphroditus

=== 페이지 486 ===
herma   (stone heap), because of the sound of the  words. The herms were used as boundary stones  and distance markers in Greece but eventu -  ally became anthropomorphic: in many ancient  artworks, Hermes is portrayed as a herm, an  ithyphallic stone column with a phallus attached,  or sometimes he was portrayed entirely in phal -  lic form. Of ancient artworks Praxiteles’ statue of  the nude Hermes holding the infant Dionysus is  among the most famous. Renaissance artworks  often portrayed Hermes as a graceful, vigorous  young man with wings on his sandals and on the  crown of his broad-brimmed hat, which came to  symbolize his speed. In Roman art the staff (cadu -  ceus) came to symbolize the physician as well as  the herald. Hermes had many epithets, among  them: Argiphontes (slayer of Argus), Cylleneius,  Epimelios (guardian of flocks), Hodios (patron of  travelers and wayfarers), Nomios, Oneiropom -  pus (conductor of dreams), and Psychopompus  (conductor of souls to the underworld).  See   also:   aphrodite; apollo; caduceus;  daphnis; dido; dionysus; hermaphroditus;  maia; mercury;   odyssey, the ; pan; penelope;  zeus  Hermes Trismegistus   (Hermes, three times  great or very, very great)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, the Greek name for the god Thoth, who  was identified by the Greeks with their god  Hermes. He was believed to be the first magi -  cian and to have left a series of magical books  for his followers. Longfellow’s poem   Hermes  Trismegistus   deals with the deity.  See also:   hermes; thoth  Hermod   (courage   in   battle)   In   Norse  mythology, a son of Odin and Frigga. A hand -  some god, Hermod was the messenger of the  gods. He loved to enter battles and was often  called “the valiant in combat.” Aside from his  helmet and corselet Hermod had a magic wand  or staff, Gambantein, which he carried wher -  ever he went.  Once, oppressed by fear of the future, Odin  called on Hermod to put on his armor, saddle  Sleipnir (the horse Odin alone was allowed to  ride), and hasten off to the land of the Finns  to see Rossthiof (the horse thief) for an answer  to Odin’s fear. Hermod hurried off, carrying  not his magic wand, Gambantein, but Odin’s  runic staff. Rossthiof conjured up monsters to  hinder Hermod, but Hermod soon mastered  Rossthiof, binding him hand and foot and say -  ing he would be set free only when he answered  Hermod’s questions. Rossthiof, seeing there  was no hope of escape, pledged himself to do  all Hermod wished. As soon as he was free  again, he began to mutter incantations, which  made the sun hide behind the clouds, the earth  tremble, and storm winds rise.  Pointing to the horizon, Rossthiof asked  Hermod to look, and the god saw a great  stream of blood redden all the ground. While  he was gazing at this, a beautiful woman sud -  denly appeared, and a moment later a boy  stood beside her. To Hermod’s amazement the  child grew to full height in a moment and was  carrying a bow and arrows.  Rossthiof   said   the   blood   portended   the  murder of one of Odin’s sons, but if Odin  wooed   and   won   Rinda   in   the   land   of   the  Ruthenes (Russia), she would bear him a son  who would attain his full growth in a few hours  and avenge his brother’s death.  Hermod rushed home to Odin and informed  him of what happened. Odin consoled himself,  Hermod   46   Hermes Weighing the Souls of Achilles  and Hector   (John Flaxman)

=== 페이지 487 ===
knowing   that   when   one   son   died,   another  would avenge the death. There is considerable  evidence that Hermod may once have been a  human hero and not a god. Hermod appears  in the   Poetic Edda,   the   Prose Edda,   and Matthew  Arnold’s narrative poem   Balder Dead.  See also:   poetic edda ;   prose edda;   rinda;  slepnir  hero   The term   heros   was used in Greek epic  poems with the meaning “favored by the gods.”  In time, however, it came to be associated with  a great or noble man, still later to an illustrious  warrior or someone who was admired for enno -  bling qualities of spirit. Some heroes in epic  literature are traditional, some are fictional, and  some are based on real individuals, but heroism  is always a masculine trait. This term has been  used to designate the lifestyles of saints, martyrs,  and even hermits. In more recent times, the  figure of a “hero” has come to mean a character  larger than life, often more moral or noble than  his peers but not always; hero worship has been  attached to tricksters, confidence men, and even  minor criminals. In the United States, heroes  have often been viewed as individuals who are  known for righting wrongs and bringing order.  From this interpretation we now have as heroes  an entire array of Western marshalls, private  detectives, and policemen, all of whom rescue  victims of injustice.  Hero and Leander   In Greek mythology,  two lovers. Hero was a priestess of Aphrodite  at Sestos when Leander fell in love with her.  Each night he would swim from his home at  Abydos on the opposite side of Hellespont to  meet Hero, who guided him with a lit torch  in   her   tower.   One   stormy   night,   however,  Leander   drowned,   and   Hero   killed   herself.  The myth is told in Vergil’s   Georgics   (3) and  in Ovid’s   Herodides   (18, 19). The most famous  treatment in English literature is Marlowe’s  narrative poem   Hero and Leander   (1598), com -  pleted   by   Chapman.   Other   English   poets  who have treated the subject are Byron (who  swam the Hellespont), Keats, Tennyson, and  Dante Gabriel Rosetti. Mancinelli’s opera   Ero e  Leandro   (1896) also deals with the myth, as does  an 1879 opera by Bottesini.  See also:   aphrodite; ovid  heron   A long-legged, long-necked bird hav -  ing a long bill and large wings. In Egyptian  mythology the heron was believed to house the  ba,   or soul. In The Book of the Dead there is a  spell to help a deceased person effect transfor -  mation into a heron.  See also:   ba; book of the dead ,   the  Hesiod   (eighth century   b.c.e )   Earliest Greek  poet after Homer. Hesiod is known for his  Works and Days   and   Theogony,   both of which  deal with Greek mythology. Hesiod lived at  Hero and Leander  4  0   hero

=== 페이지 488 ===
Ascra in Boeotia, where he had a small farm on  the slopes of Mount Helicon. According to the  poet, the Muses visited him and gave him the  gift of song. In his   Works and Days   he includes  the myths of Pandora (he disliked women)  and that of the Golden Age. Included in the  work is the earliest Greek fable, The Hawk  and the Nightingale. His other major work,  the   Theogony,   is an attempt to systematize the  genealogy of the gods leading to the kingship  of Zeus over his father, Cronus. In this work  he portrays the more sinister aspects of Greek  mythology, such as castration, incest, child-  swallowing, witchcraft, and human sacrifice,  which were minimized or eliminated by Homer  and later Greek and Roman authors. Scholars  now believe that the fragments of a   Shield of  Heracles   and a   Catalogue of Famous Women   once  ascribed to the poet are not by Hesiod.  See also:   golden age; homer; muses; pan -  dora  Hesione   In Greek mythology, daughter of  Laomedon, first king of Troy, and Strymo; sister  of Astioche, Cilla, Clytius, Hicetaon, Lampus,  Priam,   and   Tithonus;   married   to   Telamon;  mother of Teucer. Hesione was rescued from  a sea monster by Heracles. When Heracles  demanded payment, Laomedon refused, and  the hero killed him and all of his sons except  Priam. Hesione was then given by Heracles  to his friend Telamon, and she was taken to  Greece. Priam sent his son Paris to fetch her  back, but Paris instead abducted Helen. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 11) tells the tale.  See also:   helen of troy; heracles; laom -  edon; ovid; paris; priam  Hesperides   (nymphs of the west)   In Greek  mythology, guardians of the tree of Golden  Apples in the garden at the world’s end in the  far west; daughters of Atlas and Hesperis. The  Golden Apples were protected not only by the  Hesperides, but also by a dragon, Ladon. For  his twelfth labor Heracles, aided by Atlas, had  to gather three of the Golden Apples. Heracles  agreed to hold up the heavens in Atlas’s place  while Atlas took the apples. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  4),   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book   4),   Milton’s  Paradise Lost   (book 4), Pope’s   Temple of Fame  (81),   and   William   Morris’s   Earthly   Paradise  all cite the Apples of the Hesperides. Robert  Herrick’s   Hesperides,   a collection of Arcadian  lyrics, was so named because it was written  when he was the priest of a parish in the west  of England. Shakespeare’s   Love’s Labour’s Lost  (4.3.340–41) credits Heracles with gathering  the apples: “For valour, is not Love a Hercules,  / Still climbing trees in the Hesperides.”  See also:   aeneid, the;   atlas; golden apples  of   the   hesperides;   heracles;   hesperides;  ladon; ovid  Hesperus   (evening)   In Greek and Roman  mythology, the evening star, son of Astraeus Edition of   Hesiod , title page   (Hans Holbein)  Hesperus   4 

=== 페이지 489 ===
and   Eos,   or   Eos   and   Cephalius;   father   of  Ceyx and grandfather of the Hesperides, who  guarded the Golden Apples. Some Greek and  Roman writers make Hesperus the morning  star and use the name for the planet Venus.  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 22), Sappho’s   Fragments  (95), Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 4.605; book  9.49)   and   Comus   (980–982),   and   Spenser’s  Faerie Queene   (1.2.6) and   Epithalamion   (288)  all refer to Hesperus, as well as others such as  Shakespeare, Donne, and Jonson. The word  vesper   comes from Hesperus via Latin.  See also:   astraeus; golden apples of the  hesperides; hesperides;   iliad, the;   venus  Hestia   (hearth)   In Greek mythology, one of  the 12 Olympians; goddess of the hearth and  home; firstborn of Cronus and Rhea; sister of  Demeter, Hades, Hera, Poseidon, and Zeus.  She was called Vesta by the Romans, and her  shrine in Rome was kept by vestal virgins.  There are no tales of her life, since she was a  virgin who kept her vows.  See also:   demeter; hades; hera; olympian  gods; poseidon; vesta; zeus  hex   (six, witch)   In American folklore of the  Pennsylvania Dutch, symbols and signs often  found on Pennsylvania farm buildings, which  are believed to protect animals from the Evil  Eye and other spells. These symbols are also  called barn art. The hex sign area includes all  of Berks and Lehigh and portions of seven  adjacent counties. The heaviest concentrations  are found in the area of Old Route 22, called  the “Hex Tour Highway.” The hex signs are  drawn from a large repertoire of folk designs.  The geometric patterns of quilts can easily be  seen in the patterns of many hex signs.  Hex Chun Chan   (the dangerous one)   In  Mayan mythology, a war god. In present-day  folklore of the Mayans of Yucatán, he is a  demonic spirit, greatly feared.  Hiawatha   (Haiowatha)   (he   makes   rivers)  (16th   century?)   In   North   American   Indian  history and legend (Iroquois), founder of the  League of Five, later Six, Nations, called the  “League of the Long House”: Mohawk, Oneida,  Onondaga,   Cayuga,   Seneca,   and   Tuscarora,  tribes occupying most of upstate New York.  According to Iroquois legend, Hiawatha was  an Onondaga chieftain who sought the unity of  various Indian tribes. At first he was violently  opposed by the magician and war chief Atotarho,  whose head was covered in snakes. Through his  magic, Atotarho caused a gigantic white bird to  kill Hiawatha’s daughter. Hiawatha persisted with  his crusade and converted the chief, Dekana -  wida (two river currents flowing together), and  4  2   Hestia  Hestia

=== 페이지 490 ===
together they converted other tribes. Hiawatha  then returned and converted Atotarho to the  plan. Hiawatha combed the snakes out of Atotar -  ho’s hair, symbolizing his conversion. He then  stepped into his white canoe and sailed away to  the land of souls in the far west.  Henry Wadsworth Longfellow’s narrative  poem   The Song of Hiawatha   confused the his -  torical Hiawatha with the god Manabozho, an  Algonquian divinity, because his source,   Algic  Researches   by H. R. Schoolcraft, was in error.  Longfellow’s poem has inspired many works,  including parodies, beginning with Lewis Car -  roll’s   Hiawatha Photographing.   A series of prints  by Currier & Ives deals with the poem. The  work has been set to music and has inspired  orchestral tone poems by Coerne, Delius, and  Jong, among others. Samuel Coleridge-Taylor’s  Scenes from the Song of Hiawatha   for chorus and  orchestra is the best known.  See also:   dekanawida; manabozho  Hidari   Jingoro   (Jingoro   the   left-handed)  (1584–1634)   Japanese sculptor.  According to legend, Jingoro once picked  up a mirror that a girl had dropped in the  street. On seeing the beautiful girl, he fell so  deeply in love with her that he kept the mirror.  He carved a wooden statue of her, and when  the statue was completed he placed the mirror  in a fold of its dress. Suddenly the statue came  to life. For some time he was happy, but then  his lord’s daughter’s head was demanded by an  enemy of the lord or the enemy would destroy  the princedom. Jingoro, an extremely loyal ser -  vant, cut off the living head of his statue. When  the messenger who delivered the head to the  enemy returned, he attacked Jingoro, thinking  he had murdered the lord’s daughter, and cut  off Jingoro’s right hand.  Hiisi   (Hisi, Lempo, Jutas)   (dread place)   In  the Finnish epic poem   The Kalevala,   the devil,  sometimes called Juutas, from Judas, revealing  the Christian influence on the final form of the  epic. Hiisi is also used as a general term for  demons who haunt Hittola (demon’s domain),  a dreary region with charred and burned heaths  and hills, not far from Pohjola, the Northland.  The Kalevala   (runes 13–14) tells of the Hiisi  Elk, a magic elk created by Hiisi. The hero  Lemminkainen had to subdue it to win the  Maiden of Pohjola as his wife. Lemminkainen  defeated the Hiisi Elk by the use of magic  charms and prayers.  Hiisi originally referred to a sacred or sac -  rificial grove. In some parts of   The Kalevala   the  term is used for dread or haunted places. Paha  Mies (evil man) is another designation of the  devil in Finnish mythology. Paha Mies rules  over Paha Valta, another name for hell.  See   also:   hittola; judas iscariot;   kal -  evala, the ; lemminkainen  Hikuleo   In Polynesian mythology, Tongan  god of the underworld, who lives in Pulotu,  the land of the dead, believed to be an unseen  island reached by boat.  Hilary   of   Poitiers,   St.   (cheerful)   (fourth  century)   In Christian legend, Doctor of the  Church. Patron of retarded children. Invoked  against snakes. Feast, 14 January.  Hilary was bishop of Poitiers in France  and author of numerous works dealing with  Christian theology. One of the most fantastic  elements in his legend is the “murder” of his  daughter and wife, reported in   Les Petits Bolan -  distes   (vol. 1). St. Hilary had a daughter named  Abra. When she reached marriageable age, the  saint prayed that she might die, lest she should  be corrupted by the world. His prayer was  answered, and she died. His wife, “jealous of  her daughter’s happiness,” asked her husband  to pray that she might join her daughter. This  he did, and his wife also died. One churchman,  defending the saint’s “murder” of his wife and  daughter, wrote that the miracles were “more  extraordinary than raising the dead to life.”  Brewer, however, in his   Dictionary of Miracles  writes that the saint “deliberately murdered  both his victims.”  Hilary of Poitiers, St.   4  3

=== 페이지 491 ===
Less gruesome than the deaths of his daugh -  ter and wife was the saint’s power to drive ser -  pents away in the manner of St. Patrick and  his ability after death to rally forces against  Alaric, the Arian king of the Goths, when he  attacked Clovis, king of the Franks. The spirit  of the saint appeared to Clovis and told him to  “delay not, for as captain of the Lord’s hosts am  I come to thee this day, and the God of battles  will deliver the foe into thy hands.” The saint’s  prediction proved true.  See also:   patrick, st.  Hilda, St.   (battle maid)   (seventh century)   In  Christian   legend,   abbess   of   Whitby   Abbey.  Feast, 17 November. Great granddaughter of  King Edwin of Northumbria. Hilda could turn  snakes into stone. When she died, her soul  ascended to heaven in the company of angels.  Medieval art portrays her with a royal crown  at her feet or on her head to indicate her royal  blood. She also holds a model of Whitby Abbey  in her hand.  Hildebrandslied   In German literary legend,  a heroic lay in alliterative verse, recorded from  oral sources around 800   c.e.   The setting is the  period of the Great Migrations (c. 350–500   c.e. ),  when a Germanic warrior named Hildebrand  leaves his wife and young son to flee the Goth  Odoacer’s fury. He joins forces with Dietrich of  Bern, king of the Ostrogoths, and only returns  after many years. On a battlefield Hildebrand  meets his own son, Hadubrand, who is also  now a warrior. When Hildebrand asks his son  who he is, telling him that he knows everyone  in the clans, Hadubrand is immediately suspi -  cious of the aging warrior. The father offers  him rings of gold from around his arm, which  he had earned in battles, but the son extends his  spear to receive the gold, placing the spearhead  in his father’s face. A battle ensues, but the  story breaks off before we know the ending. In  at least two places in this ancient legend there  are references that indicate that Christianity  made an impact on the tale. Hildebrand speaks  of “God .   .   . from heaven above,” and a second  time he says “Woe, almighty God, woeful fate.”  Most scholars see these statements as Christian  overlay on an orally transmitted tale.  See also:   dietrich of bern  Hill, Joe   (1879–1915)   In American history  and folklore, folk hero of radical labor. Born  in Sweden, Joel Hagglund came to the United  States in 1902, where he first worked at a  Bowery saloon in New York City. In 1910, he  became a member of the Industrial Workers of  the World, a labor organization also referred  to as the Wobblies, and in 1911 he took part in  the Mexican Revolution. He was charged with  the murder of two men in Salt Lake City and  later was shot by a firing squad. Some 30,000  people attended his funeral. On May Day of  the same year they scattered his ashes in all  states except Utah. He is the author of numer -  ous labor songs, among them “The Union  Scab,” “The Tramp,” and “Scissor Bill.” His  last telegram before his execution said: “Don’t  waste any time in mourning. Organize.”  Hino   In North American Indian mythology  (Iroquois), the thunderer. Armed with his mighty  bow and flaming arrow, he was the eternal enemy  of evil. Hino slew the great serpent of the waters,  who was destroying the earth. Hino’s wife is the  rainbow, and his assistants are Oshadagea, the  great dew eagle who lodges in the western sky  and who carries a lake of dew in the hollow of his  back, and Keneu, the golden eagle.  Hinotama   (ball of fire)   During the intern -  ment of 19,000 Japanese Americans in Tule  Lake, California, during World War II, stories  common to rural Japan, but which had never  been documented in the United States, began  to appear in the camps. Stories of a ball of fire,  interpreted as a ghost presaging death, were told  along with stories of bewitchment, shapeshift -  ers, omens, and so on. The graveyard area was  considered   especially   dangerous,   particularly  during the period of citizenship renunciation.  4  4   Hilda, St.

=== 페이지 492 ===
One story of fireballs as bad omens near  the latrine was recalled by an internee while  walking to her apartment in Block 32: “.   .   .  when something prompted her to look over  her shoulder. She glanced up and was chilled by  a strange glow hovering over the latrine roof.  She shivered violently and hurried home to tell  her mother, fully expecting her not to believe  it. But her mother looked worried, opened  the door, looked out but said nothing. The  girl insisted on knowing what it was, and her  mother told her she must have seen   hinotama.  A few days later an elderly bedridden block  resident died.”  See also:   shape-shifter  hippogriff   In Renaissance mythology, fan -  tastic beast, half horse, half griffin, created by  Ariosto in his epic   Orlando Furioso.   The hippog -  riff was sired by a griffin, and its mother was a  mare. The beast had his father’s feathers, wings,  forelegs, head, and beak, but the rest was horse.  Ariosto’s imagination was stirred by Vergil’s  Aeneid   with its poetic image to “cross griffins  with horses,” to signify something impossible.  See also:   griffin  Hippolyte   (of stampeding horses)   In Greek  mythology, the queen of the Amazons; daugh -  ter   of   Ares   and   Otrera;   sister   of   Antiope  and Penthesilea. Heracles’ ninth labor was to  obtain   Hippolyte’s   magic   girdle.   According  to one ancient account, Hippolyte was infatu -  ated with Heracles and gave him her girdle,  but when she came to deliver it to his ship,  her women warriors thought she was being  abducted. They attacked, and Heracles killed  Hippolyte. Another account says Heracles gave  her   to   Theseus   in   marriage,   and   she   bore  Hippolytus.  See also:   amazons; antiope; ares; hippoly -  tus; penthesilea; theseus  Hippolytus   (of the stampeding horses)   In  Greek   mythology,   son   of   King   Theseus   of  Athens and Hippolyte, queen of the Amazons.  Hippolytus was dedicated to chastity and wor -  shipped the virgin goddess Artemis. Phaedra,  his stepmother, fell madly in love with him,  but he refused her advances. She then accused  him of attempting to rape her. Theseus, con -  vinced that Phaedra told the truth, prayed to  his father, Poseidon, to kill Hippolytus as he  drove from Athens to Troezen. Poseidon sent  a sea monster, which frightened Hippolytus’s  horses, and he was flung from his chariot and  dragged to his death. In Roman mythology  Hippolytus is restored to life by Diana, the  Roman counterpart of Artemis, and taken to  her sacred grove in Aricia under the name  Virbius. Hippolytus is the subject of Euripides’  Hippolytus,   Seneca’s   Phaedra,   Racine’s   Phèdre,  and Rameau’s opera   Hippolyte et Aricie,   in which  Hippolytus is restored to life.  See also:   amazons; artemis; diana; pha -  edra; poseidon  Hippolytus,   St.   (horse   destruction)   In  Christian   legend,   patron   saint   of   hors -  es. Hippolytus was one of the jailers of St.  Lawrence but was converted to Christianity  by the saint. He helped bury the saint’s body  and was arrested as a result. The pagan judge Hippogriff  Hippolytus, St.   4  5

=== 페이지 493 ===
“had Hippolytus tied by the feet to the necks  of untamed horses, and dragged over thistles  and thorns until he breathed his last,” accord -  ing to   The Golden Legend,   a book of saints’  lives written in the 13th century by Jacobus de  Voragine.  See also:   golden legend, the ; lawrence, st.  hippopotamus   (river horse)   A large mam -  mal with a thick hairless body, found in and  near rivers. In Egyptian mythology the hip -  popotamus   had   a   dual   role.   Sometimes   it  was a beneficent being as symbol of the god -  dess Taurt, who aided women in childbirth.  But it could also be a symbol of a demonic  being as a form of the evil god Set. A form of  Horus, called Her-tchema (Horus the piercer),  referred to his role in spearing Set, who had  assumed the form of a hippopotamus. Among  Tutankhamen’s treasures is a statue of a man,  who may be the young Tut, holding a harpoon  or lance pointed at an invisible foe, which may  have originally been a figure of a hippopotamus,  symbol of Set. In Edfu, a city sacred to Horus,  harpooners were maintained whose duty it was  to kill the animal. In the Old Testament the  monster Behemoth is sometimes equated with  the hippopotamus.  See also:   horus; set; taurt; tutankhamen  Hiru Ko no Kikoto   (Hirugo)   In Japanese  mythology, eldest son of Izanagi and Izanami,  the creator couple. He is sometimes credited  with being the first fisherman.  See also:   izanagi and izanami  historic-geographic   method   (Finnish  method)   A method for studying folk narra -  tives that was developed in the late 19th cen -  tury by the Finnish scholars Kaarle Krohn and  Antti Aarne .   The methodology was designed  to arrange historical versions through time  and geographical versions through space for  comparative purposes. The ultimate goal was  to reconstruct a life history and eventually  extract an archetype, a hypothetical original  form for each tale. The method was based on  an assumption that tales had a single origin  in time and place (monogenesis) rather than  multiple origins (polygenesis) and that the  tales   spread   through   migration   of   peoples  or   by   automigration   (from   one   person   to  another).  See also   archetype; diffusion; indo-euro -  pean hypothesis; monogenesis and polygen -  esis; tale type  Hitomaru   (seventh century   c.e. )   In Japanese  legend, deified poet invoked as the god of poet -  ry. He was a foundling picked up at the foot of  a persimmon tree by the warrior Abaye, who  adopted him.  Hitopadesha   (book of good counsel)   Hindu  collection of tales and fables, many of which  are also found in the more popular collection  The   Panchatantra.   Other   stories   were   com -  posed in Bengal between the 10th and the 13th  centuries.  The   setting   for   the   collection   of   tales-  within-a-tale is the court of King Sudarshana.  One day the king discovered “that his sons  were gaining no wisdom, nor reading the sacred  Vedas, but were altogether going the wrong  way.” King Sudarshana decided to set his sons  on the right path and chose a sage, Vishnu-  Sharman, to instruct them. Vishnu-Sharman  decided to enlighten the princes by telling them  fables that would point out their duties. The  book is divided into four sections: the winning  of friends, the parting of friends, war, and peace.  In his selection of the fables from the   Hitopade -  sha   included in   The Fables of India,   Joseph Gaer  wrote: “The purpose of the book is to instruct.  But the reason it survived through the centu -  ries was not because it was so educational, but  because it was so entertaining.”  The tales bring out this point. The first,  contained in part 1, is “The Jackal, Deer, and  Crow.”  Once there lived in a forest a deer, a crow,  and a jackal. The deer and crow loved each  4  6   hippopotamus

=== 페이지 494 ===
other very much. One day the deer, roaming  about, was seen by the jackal.  “Ho,” thought the jackal on seeing how fat  the deer was, “if I could but get this soft meat  for a meal! It might be—if I can only win his  confidence.”  So the jackal went up to the deer. “Health be  to you, dear friend,” the jackal said to the deer.  “Who are you?” replied the deer.  “I’m Small-Wit, the jackal,” he replied. “I  live in the wood here, as the dead do, without a  friend. But now that I have met you I feel as if  I were beginning life again. Consider me your  faithful servant.”  “Very well,” said the deer, and the two went  off to the deer’s house.  The crow, Sharpe-Sense, spotted the two  and   called   out:   “Who   is   this   number   two,  friend deer?”  “It is the jackal,” answered the deer, “that  desires our acquaintance.”  “You   should   not   become   friendly   to   a  stranger without reason,” said the crow. “Don’t  you know?  To folks by no one known house-room  deny:  The vulture housed the cat, and thence  did die.”  The second tale, contained in part 2, is  called “The Lion and the Old Hare,” another  fine example.  Once there was a lion, named Fierce-of-  Heart, who made life very difficult for all of  the animals because he massacred them all day  long. It grew so bad that they all held a public  meeting and drew up a respectful remonstrance  to the lion.  “Wherefore should Your Majesty make car -  nage of us all?” they asked. “Let us daily furnish  you with a beast for your meal.”  “That arrangement is fine with me,” the  lion replied.  So each day the animals supplied the lion  with one of themselves to eat. One day it was  the old hare’s turn to be eaten. He walked up  to the lion at a very leisurely pace. The lion was  very hungry and said, “How dare you take so  long in coming?”  “Sire,” relied the old hare, “I am not to  blame. I was detained on the road by another  lion, who exacted an oath from me to return  when I should have informed Your Majesty.”  “Go,” replied the lion in a rage. “Show me  instantly where this insolent villain of a lion  lives.”  The old hare took the lion to a place where  there was a deep well and stopped. “Let my  lord come hither,” he said, “and behold the  lion.”  The   lion   approached   the   well   and   saw  his own reflection in the water. He jumped  into the well to attack what he believed to be  another lion, and so he perished.  See also:   frame tale;   panchatantra, the ;  vedas  Hittola   (demon’s domain)   In Finnish myth-  ology, a dreary region with charred and burned  heaths and hills, not far from Pohjola, the  Northland. It is filled with demons.  Hkun Ai   In Burmese mythology, a hero who  married a Naga, a dragon woman, and fathered  a king, Tung Hkam. Hkun Ai fell in love with a  Naga princess and went to live in the kingdom  of the Nagas. To make it easier for Hkun Ai,  the king of the Nagas ordered all of the drag -  ons to assume human form, which they did. At  the time of the Nagas’s water festival, however,  they had to assume their dragon shapes. After  seeing the Nagas sporting in the waters, Hkun  Ai became gloomy and wanted to go home to  his parents. His wish was granted. The Naga  princess, however, said she would lay an egg  from which a child would be hatched who  could be fed with milk from Hkun Ai’s little  finger whenever he thought of her. A child was  hatched from the egg and named Tung Hkam,  or Golden Dead Leaves. When the boy grew  up, he wanted to marry Princess Pappawadi,  Hkun Ai   4 

=== 페이지 495 ===
whose palace was surrounded by water and had  to be reached without the use of bridge, boat,  or raft. He called on his mother, who appeared  and stretched her body from the shore to the  palace on the island, and Tung Hkam walked  over her to reach the princess, whom he mar -  ried. Tung Hkam reigned for 72 years and was  succeeded by two sons, Hkun Lu and after him  Khun Lai.  See also:   dragon; naga  Hlithskjolf   (Hlidskjalf)   (watchtower)   In  Norse mythology, the high seat of Odin chief  of the gods, in Valaskjalf from which he could  overlook the nine worlds. Odin is referred to as  the “Lord of Hlithskjolf.”  See also:   hugin and munin; odin  Hnossa   (jewel)   In Norse mythology, daugh -  ter of the goddess Freyja and Odur. According  to the   Prose Edda,   she “is so very handsome that  whatever is beautiful and precious is called by  her name.” The kenning for Freyja is “mother  of Hnossa.”  See also:   freyja; kenning;   prose edda  Hodur   (Hod,   Hoder)   (battle)   In   Norse  mythology,   a   blind   god,   son   of   Odin   and  Frigga; twin brother of Baldur; tricked by the  evil Loki, the fire god, into hurling mistletoe  at Baldur, thus killing him. At Ragnarok, the  end of the world, Hodur and Baldur will be  reconciled when Hodur returns from death  after being killed by Vali, and they will return  to a purged cosmos.  See also:   baldur; loki; ragnarok; vali  Hoenir   (henlike)   In Norse mythology, an  Aesir god, brother of Odin, who along with his  other brother, Lodur, created Ask and Embla.  Hoenir is called Vili (will) in the   Poetic Edda.  After the war between the Aesir and the Vanir,  Hoenir went to live with the Vanir as part of an  exchange of gods.  See also:   aesir-vanir war; andvari; ask  and embla  Hohodemi   and   Umi   Sachi   Hiko   In  Japanese mythology, rival brothers. Hohodemi  was a great hunter and Umi Sachi Hiko was a  great fisher. One day the two exchanged places,  but Hohodemi lost the magical fishing hook of  Umi Sachi Hiko, who then refused to return  his magic bow and arrow. Hohodemi tried to  propitiate his brother by making 500 new fish -  ing hooks out of his sword, but Umi Sachi Hiko  wanted his original hook. Hohodemi finally  went down under the sea to Ryujin, the dragon  king, who helped him find the lost hook, which  was then returned to Umi Sachi Hiko. Ryujin  also gave Hohodemi two jewels, one for the  flowing and the other for the ebbing of the  tides. With these magical jewels Hohodemi  eventually became master of his brother.  Ho Ho Erh-Hsien   (the two immortals har -  mony and togetherness)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, patron gods of merchants, potters, and  lime   burners,   portrayed   as   two   short,   fat,  laughing men.  Ho Hsien-Ku   (the immortal lady Ho)   In  Chinese   Taoist   mythology,   one   of   the   Pa-  Hsien,   the   Eight   Immortals.   She   achieved  immortality after a course of lonely wandering  among the hills, living on powdered mother-  of-pearl   and   moonbeams.   When   called   to  Ho Hsien-Ku  4    Hlithskjolf

=== 페이지 496 ===
court, she disappeared. She is portrayed with  the lotus, her emblem, and invoked as the  helper and guide to housekeepers.  See also:   pa-hsien  Holy Grail   In medieval Christian legend,  talisman identified as the cup used by Jesus at  the Last Supper and the object of a quest in  many legends; often called the   Sangreal   (royal  blood). The Grail is almost always associated  with nourishment and can produce wished-for  food or drink.  Although not all of the legends mention  the origin of the sacred cup, a few trace it back  to the creation of the world. They claim that,  when Lucifer stood next to God the Father  the other angels presented him with a beauti -  ful crown, whose central jewel was a flawless  emerald of great size.  When God the Father announced to his  heavenly court that he was going to send his Son  to earth, a war followed. Lucifer led the revolt  against the Son and was cast out of heaven.  During his fall to hell, the emerald dropped  out of his crown and fell to earth. There it was  fashioned into a cup or chalice used by Jesus  at the Last Supper. When Jesus was dying on  the cross, his side was pierced by the centurion  Longinus, and Joseph of Arimathea caught a  few drops of his blood, which flowed from his  side into the cup. After the Crucifixion Joseph  was locked in prison and was nourished by the  Holy Cup, or Grail. He lingered some time in  prison until Emperor Vespasian, hearing the  tale of Christ, sent messengers to Palestine for  relics, hoping to cure his son Titus of leprosy.  Titus was cured by the magic handkerchief of  St. Veronica. Nevertheless, Titus searched out  Joseph and freed him from prison. Fearful of  being imprisoned again, Joseph embarked with  his sister and his brother-inlaw, Brons (derived  from Bran, the name of the Celtic god), in a ves -  sel bound for Marseilles. During their journey  they had all of their needs supplied by the Holy  Grail. On landing in France, Joseph was told by  a heavenly messenger to construct a round table  at which he and his companions could be seated,  and the Holy Grail would supply each guest with  the food he required. One seat at the table was  to remain empty in memory of the traitor Judas.  Only a sinless man could occupy the seat. Once  a sinner attempted to sit in the seat and was swal -  lowed up by the earth. Joseph was told that the  enchanter Merlin would in time make a similar  table, at which a descendant of Brons would have  the honor of occupying this Siege Perilous.  From Marseilles the group slowly traveled  to Glastonbury, England, with the Holy Grail.  For some time it was visible to the people but  then disappeared because of their sinful lives. It  was borne off to Sarras, an island city (presum -  ably located in the Mediterranean), where it  was guarded, according to one legend, by King  Evelake.  According to another medieval legend, a  pilgrim knight laid a golden cross on the Holy  Sepulcher, praying for a son. When his prayers  were answered he named the boy Titurel and  dedicated   him   to   Christ.   After   Titurel   had  spent many years in warfare against the Sara -  cens, an angel appeared to him and told him  that he had been chosen to guard the Holy  Grail, which was about to descend to earth  once more and make its home at Montsalvatch.  Impelled by this vision and led by a guiding  cloud, Titurel set out on a quest for the holy  mountain. After ascending the steep mountain,  Titurel was given a glimpse of the Holy Grail.  He was joined by a number of knights, who had  been transported miraculously to the site. The  knights, assisted by angels, erected a temple. As  soon as it was completed the Holy Grail came  down from heaven on a celestial beam of light  and stayed in their midst.  Titurel, who was now fisher king and guard -  ian of the sacred object, presided at the round  table with the knights, who were miraculously  fed by the Holy Grail. From time to time there  appeared on the edge of the sacred cup, written  in letters of fire, instructions bidding a knight  to defend some innocent person or to right  some wrong. The group was called the Knights  Holy Grail   4 

=== 페이지 497 ===
of the Holy Grail. Guided by the Holy Grail,  Titurel was told to marry. He chose a Spanish  girl, by whom he had a son and daughter. The  son, also marrying under divine guidance, had  two sons and three daughters, one of whom  became the mother of Perceval (Parzival).  Old and weary of kingship, Titurel resigned  his office, first to his son, who was killed in  war, and then to his grandson Amfortas. But  Amfortas was restless and led a life of pleasure,  neglecting his duties as keeper of the Holy  Grail. Wounded by a thrust from a poisoned  lance   (in   some   accounts   it   is   the   lance   of  Longinus that wounded Jesus’ side), Amfortas  returned to Montsalvatch. His pain was inten -  sified when he thought of his sins. One day he  saw words on the rim of the cup that indicated  his wound would be healed by a guileless fool.  The guileless fool was Perceval (Parzival),  who after many adventures arrived at Montsal -  vatch. He was led into the banqueting hall and  was awed by its splendor. Perceval noticed that  his host, Amfortas, was suffering from some  illness or wound. Then suddenly the doors  opened wide, and a procession entered the hall.  It circled the round table and went out again.  In the procession were a servant who carried a  lance, then some maidens who carried a stand  for the Holy Grail, and finally the Holy Grail  itself, brought in by Titurel’s granddaughter.  After some time the knights were served  food from the Holy Grail. When dinner was  done, they left Perceval alone to ponder what  the entire episode meant. Perceval ate and was  taken to a room to sleep. When the next morn -  ing came, he found that the castle was deserted.  The drawbridge opened as he left and closed  after him, and he heard a voice cursing him but  saw no one.  Perceval’s sin was not asking Amfortas what  ailed him. For this failing he had to do severe  penance. After completing his penance he again  arrived at the castle. Once more he entered the  banqueting hall, and once more he beheld the  procession. Strengthened by prayer, Perceval  then asked the momentous question, where -  upon Amfortas’s wound was instantly healed,  the aged Titurel was released from the pain of  living, and Kundrie (the one who had cursed  him earlier) was baptized. Perceval was then  acclaimed the keeper of the Holy Grail.  Perceval’s son Lohengrin, the Knight of the  Swan, was another keeper of the Holy Grail, as  was Galahad, the son of Lancelot of the Lake  and Elaine. After Galahad’s death, the Holy  Grail returned to heaven. Originally, the Holy  Grail had nothing to do with Christian legend.  Some scholars connect it with the Celtic god  Bran, who possessed a magic drinking horn in  which “the drink and the food that one asked  for,   one   received   in   it   when   one   desired.”  When   Christianity   denied   Bran’s   godhead,  medieval   folklore   transformed   him   into   an  island king who possessed treasures and who  sometimes fished from a boat in the river. One  of his many treasures, sometimes assigned also  to King Rhydderch of Strathclyde, who lived in  the sixth century, was a platter on which “what -  ever food one wished thereon was instantly  obtained,” a cornucopia often found in Celtic  legend. In popular lore a few objects have been  associated with the Grail, such as a wooden cup  in Wales and a green bowl in Genoa.  See also:   amfortas; arthur; bran; elaine;  galahad; joseph of aramathea; judas iscar -  iot; lancelot; lohengrin; lucifer; perceval;  titurel; veronica, st.  Holy Innocents Day   Christian feast celebrat -  ed 28 December remembering the children of  Bethlehem “from two years old and under” who  were slaughtered by the order of King Herod in  his attempt to kill the infant Jesus (Matt. 2:16–  18). In medieval English usage the name given to  the day is Childermass (child’s mass).  Homshuk   In   Mayan   mythology   of   the  Indians of Veracruz, Mexico, the corn spirit.  Homshuk was at first opposed by the god  Hurakán, who later accepted and took care of  him because corn is necessary to maintain life.  See also:   hurakán  4  0   Holy Innocents Day

=== 페이지 498 ===
Ho-no-Ikazuchi   In   Japanese   mythol -  ogy, one of the Ikazuchi, the eight gods of  thunder.  See also:   ikazuchi  Horae   (hours, seasons)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, children of Zeus and Themis; goddesses of  the seasons, later of justice. Hesiod’s   Theogony  names three: Eunomia (lawfulness), Dice (jus -  tice), and Eirene (peace). At Athens, Thallo  (bloom),   Auxo   (growth),   and   Carpo   (fruit)  were added to the list. The Horae, along with  the Moirae (the Fates), governed all human  actions. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 2.118) and  Milton’s   Comus   (986) cite the Horae. In Italian  Renaissance art they are used to represent the  four seasons as in the four statues on the S.  Trinità bridge in Florence.  See also:   eirene; eunomia; hesiod; ovid;  themis; zeus  Horai   (Horaizan)   In   Japanese   mythology,  one of the three mountains in the Fortunate  Islands of Paradise. It is the home of everlast -  ing life, where live the crane, the tortoise, and  the stag and where the plum tree, the pine,  the peach, and mushrooms grow in profusion  beside a jeweled tree.  Horatii   (seventh century   b.c.e. )   In Roman  history and legend, three brothers who fought  the three Curiatii. According to Livy’s   History  of Rome   (book 1), two of the Horatii were  killed, but the third killed all of the Curiatii on  the Alban side. As the victor returned to Rome,  he met his sister, who was crying because she  was to marry one of the Curiatii who had  been   killed.   Horatius   stabbed   his   sister   for  sympathizing with the enemy and was tried  for murder by Tullus Hostilius, the third king  of Rome; although acquitted, Horatius had  to pass beneath a wooden beam as a symbol  of expiation, and this became known as the  “sister’s beam.” Corneille’s tragedy   Horace   and  David’s painting   The Oath of the Horatii   deal  with the legend.  Horatius Cocles   (one-eyed)   In Roman his -  tory and legend, hero who held the Etruscans  at bay on the wooden Sublician bridge. He held  the bridge until it was cut down behind him,  and then he swam across the Tiber to safety.  The legend is told in Livy’s   History of Rome ; it  inspired Macaulay’s poem in the   Lays of Ancient  Rome   and a painting by Géricault.  See also:   livy  Horus   (that   which   is   above)   In   Egyptian  mythology, the hawk, or falcon, god. Horus is  a Latin form of a Greek word for the Egyptian  name Heru, or Hor. Originally, Horus was a  local god who was worshipped along the delta  region of the Nile. Eventually, his cult spread  throughout Egypt and was carried into Roman  times, when he was worshipped along with his  mother, Isis.  The falcon, or hawk, one of the first ani -  mals worshipped in Egypt, was said to be the  personification of the god Heru, who made  the sky. In predynastic times there arose sev -  eral hawk deities, among the most important  being the falcon god at Hierakonpolis in Upper  Egypt, where Horus took on the form of a  solar disk with wings. When the kings of the  south moved into Lower Egypt, uniting the  two lands, Horus became known as the Uniter  Horus  Horus   4 

=== 페이지 499 ===
of the South and North, or Upper and Lower  Egypt.  He was sometimes said to be the son of  the cow goddess Hathor, whose name liter -  ally means “house of Horus.” Each evening  he would fly into the goddess’s mouth, and  each morning he would emerge reborn. In the  most famous myth associated with him, how -  ever, Horus is the son of the god Osiris and  the goddess Isis, and he avenges his father’s  murder by defeating the demonic god Set in a  series of battles. Thus, Osiris is identified with  the dead king and Horus with the living king.  Sometimes the living king was said to embody  within himself both Horus, the spirit of light,  and Set, the spirit of darkness, reflecting the  eternal strife that is always present in the uni -  verse. In his role as defeater of Set, Horus is  variously portrayed as a mounted warrior with  the head of a falcon and as a falcon-headed man  with a large pointed spear driven into some foe.  In one version of the myth, Horus had his left  eye, which signified the moon, wounded in his  battle with Set, thus giving rise to one explana -  tion for the moon’s various phases. The eye was  healed by the god Thoth, and the restored eye,  known as the   udjat,   became a powerful amulet.  Various “Horus gods” also appear in Egyp -  tian mythology. Originally, many of them were  separate deities, but eventually they were all  blended into one and were considered vari -  ous aspects of the same god. Among them are  Harpokrates, Harsiesis (Horus the son of Isis),  Harmachis (Horus who is on the horizon),  Haroeris   (Horus   the   elder),   Horus-Behdety  (Horus of Behdet), Horus Khenty en Maathyu  (Horus at the head of those who see not?,  also called blind Horus), Horus Khenty Khat  (Horus at the head of the belly?), and Horus  Netcher Nedjeitef (Horus the god, he who  avenges his father).  See also:   hathor; isis; osiris; set; thoth  Hotai   In Japanese folklore, a being with a  monkey’s body and a human head with long  hair.  Hotaru Hime   In Japanese folklore, daugh -  ter of Hi O, king of the fireflies.  Hi O lived in the moat of the castle of Fukui  in Echizen. His bright but coquettish daughter,  Hotaru Hime, was courted by many lovers,  among which were a golden beetle, a black bug,  a scarlet dragonfly, and a hawk moth. For each  wooer she set a task of bringing her fire. All tried  to get it from lamps and were burned to death  as a result, except for the hawk moth, which had  more cunning and crawled inside the paper wick  of a candle. The candle was snuffed out before  he reached the flame, but he escaped with his  life. Finally, Hi Maro, the firefly prince, heard  of   the   offer   and   successfully   wooed   Hotaru  Hime. As a result, when dead insects are seen  around temple lamps in Japan, there is a saying:  “Princess Hotaru must have had many lovers  tonight.”  Hotots   In   Armenian   folklore,   evil   spirits  who   live   in   the   rivers   and   swamps.   When  they appear, they are covered with mire. They  entice men with dancing, jesting, and singing,  luring them to the swamps, where they drown  them. Their companions, the old hags, who  have breasts resembling those of ewes, live in  pools and swamps. They like to drown chil -  dren, men, horses, oxen, and buffaloes.  See also:   melusina; undine  houri   In Islamic mythology, black-eyed dam -  sels who live with the blessed in paradise. The  Koran (sura 55) says that men in paradise will  enjoy “damsels with retiring glances, whom  no man nor djinn hath touched before them.”  These houri possess eternal youth and beauty,  and their virginity is renewable. Every believer  will have 72 of these women to satisfy his sexual  needs. His intercourse with them always pro -  duces a child, if he wishes one. If an offspring  is desired, it will be a fully grown child in one  hour. The promise of houris in paradise is  found almost exclusively in those suras of the  Koran written when Muhammad had only one  wife, who was 60 years old. Later writings in  4  2   Hotai

=== 페이지 500 ===
the Koran speak of the proper wives of the  faithful accompanying their husbands into the  Garden of Paradise.  See also:   koran, the; muhammad  Howe’s Masquerade   In U.S. history and  folklore of the Revolution, a masked ball held  by the British general Sir William Howe (1729–  1814), commander-in-chief of the British army  in the American Revolution, while Boston lay  under siege by colonial forces in 1776. To show  his contempt for the colonials, Howe asked  some of his guests to dress in costumes repre -  senting Washington and his generals. But as  the party progressed, a funeral dirge was heard  outside, and a procession passed through the  ballroom. It consisted of figures from the colo -  nial past and last of all a tall man whose face  was cloaked. Howe, furious at the interruption  of his ball, ran toward the cloaked figure, only  to discover it was a caricature of him as the  last royal governor. Hawthorne’s short story  “Howe’s Masquerade,” included in his   Twice  Told Tales,   deals with the legend. According  to tradition, the grim procession appears each  year.  Hsiao Kung   (13th century)   In Chinese leg -  end, a deified mortal worshipped as the god of  rivers.  Hsieh   p’ing-an   In Chinese folk ritual, a  thanksgiving service to the gods for their gifts  during the year.  Hsien   (immortal)   In Chinese mythology, a  deified mortal or a deity who has never been  mortal. It is similar to the Chinese   shen,   another  word for divinity, spirit, god, or deified mortal.  See also:   shen  Hsi-Shen   In Chinese mythology, the god  of joy, portrayed carrying a basket or sieve in  which are planted three arrows made of peach  wood. Pictures of the god are used as talismans  by brides.  Hsi Wang Mu   (queen mother of the west)  In Chinese mythology, a goddess whose garden  contains a magical peach tree where peaches  ripen only once in 3,000 years and bestow  immortality. In Japanese mythology Hsi Wang  Mu is called Seiobo.  See also:   peach  Huaca   (Guaca)   In Inca mythology, a term  applied to anything believed to be sacred or  possessed of a spirit, such as a totem stone,  a grave, and the crest of a mountain. A spe -  cial category of these sacred items were the  Apachitas, piles of stones that were gathered  and placed at dangerous spots along roads or on  mountain passes. One Spanish account, writ -  ten by Juan de Santa Cruz Pachacuti-Yamqui  Salcamayhua, called   Account of the Antiquities of  Peru,   says that after the natives were converted  to   Christianity   they   “destroyed   and   pulled  Huaca   4  3  Huaca

=== 페이지 501 ===
down all the huacas and idols” and punished  those who consulted them. Today the word is  used as a synonym for treasure because of the  jewelry and gold objects frequently found near  the sites of ancient   huacas.  Hua-Kuang Fo   In Chinese Buddhism, the  Buddha of Hua-kuang, patron god of gold -  smiths and silversmiths and guardian deity of  temples.  Huathiacuri   In   the   mythology   of   the  Huarochiri (Warachiri) Indians of the western  side of the coastal cordillera of Peru, son of  the hero god Pariacaca. Huathiacuri learned  many arts from his father. He came to a land  where   a   rich   Indian   pretended   he   was   the  creator god. According to Francisco de Ávila,  a Roman Catholic priest of San Damian, a  parish in the district of the Huarochiri, who  wrote   A Narrative of the Error,   False Gods, and  Other Superstitions and Diabolical Rites .   .   . [of]  the Indians   (1608), the rich man’s house was  roofed with yellow and red birds’ feathers,  and he had llamas of a great number of colors,  so it was unnecessary to dye the wool they  produced. This rich man fell ill with a foul  disease. As Huathiacuri was traveling toward  the sea, he overheard a conversation between  two foxes and learned the cause of the great  man’s illness: his wife had committed adul -  tery, and two serpents were hovering over his  house eating his life away while a two-headed  toad   was   hiding   under   the   grinding   stone.  Huathiacuri caused the wife to confess, the  monsters were destroyed, the rich man recov -  ered, and Huathiacuri married the daughter.  Hubert,   St.   (mind-bright)   (Died   727)  Bishop of Liège, France; patron saint of hunts -  men, metalworkers, mathematicians, and dogs.  Feast, 3 November.  The legend of St. Hubert is similar to that  of St. Eustace, and the two are often confused  in art. Hubert was the son of a nobleman of  Aquitaine. On one great church festival all of  the faithful went to church, but Hubert decided  he wanted to hunt instead. During the hunt a  stag of “great beauty” showed itself to Hubert,  who was astonished to see a crucifix between its  antlers. Then a voice came from the stag, saying:  “Hubert, Hubert, how long will you spend your  time chasing beasts in the forest and neglecting  the things that pertain to your soul? Do you  suppose that God sent you into the world to  hunt wild beasts, and not rather to know and  honor thy Creator?” Hubert was stupefied on  hearing these words; he dismounted from his  horse, prostrated himself on the ground, and  worshipped the cross the stag bore. He vowed to  abandon the world and become a hermit.  After studying under St. Lambert, he was  ordained a priest and finally became bishop of  Liège. His descendants were said to have the  power to cure the bite of mad dogs. Thirteen  years after his death his body was disinterred  and   found   entire,   even   his   episcopal   robes  being without spot or stain from corruption. A  century after his death his body was removed  from Liège to the abbey church of the Bene -  dictines of Ardennes.  See   also:   eustace,   st.;   fourteen   holy  helpers  Hud   In Islamic legend, a prophet mentioned  in the Koran (suras 7, 11, 26, 46) who preached  to a pagan tribe, the Ad, who refused to listen  to the message of Allah.  There are numerous legends surrounding  this mysterious prophet, who is said to have  lived some 150 years. The major legend (sura  7) concerns his preaching to the Ad tribe. The  tribe refused to listen to the prophet, and as  a punishment Allah sent them three years of  drought. The tribe then sent Kail Ebn Ithar  and Morthed Ebn Saad, with 70 other men, to  the temple at Mecca to ask for rain. Mecca was  then in the hands of the tribe of Amalek, whose  prince was Moâwiyah Ebn Becr. The men were  entertained outside the city by Moâwiyah and  for a time forgot their mission. Later Moâwi -  yah told them they could have rain only if they  4  4   Hua-Kuang Fo

=== 페이지 502 ===
followed the prophet Hud and listened to his  preaching.  Kail went into Mecca with some of the  others and begged Allah to send rain. Three  clouds appeared, a white one, a red one, and a  black one. A voice from heaven ordered Kail to  choose, and Kail chose the last cloud, thinking  it was filled with rain. Suddenly, as the cloud  passed   over,   a   terrible   storm   arose,   which  destroyed all of them except Hud and his faith -  ful followers.  See also:   allah; koran, the  Huehueteotl   In ancient Mexican mythology,  fire god, believed to be the oldest of the gods.  Huemac   (strong hand)   In Aztec mythology,  god of earthquakes, sometimes equated with  Quetzalcoatl. He was the last secular ruler of  the city of Tollan before it was destroyed.  See also:   quetzalcoatl  Hueytonantzin   (our great ancient mother)  In Aztec mythology, Great Mother goddess  of the lords of the four directions: Hueytecptl  (ancient flint stone), Ixcuin (he who had four  faces),   Nanactltzatzi   (he   who   speaks   when  drunk),   and   Tentmic   (lipstone   that   slays?).  Each day the four sons of Hueytonantzin slew  their mother and sacrificed her to the sun.  See also:   great goddess  Hugin   and   Munin   (Huginn,   Muninn)  (thought and mind)   In Norse mythology,  two ravens who fly about the world, then sit  on Odin’s shoulders, telling him what they  have seen. Snorri Sturluson says in the   Prose  Edda : “Two ravens sit on his [Odin’s] shoul -  ders and say into his ear everything they see  or hear. Their names are Jugin and Munin.  He dispatches them at daybreak to fly over  all the world and they return at breakfast  time. From this he becomes wise about many  events, and thus he is called the Ravengod.”  They also appear in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   hlithskjolf; odin  Huitaca   In the mythology of the Chibcha  Indians of Colombia, evil goddess of indul -  gence, drunkenness, and license. Huitaca came  to earth to destroy the good works of the cul -  ture hero Nemterequeteba and to teach men  evil. In some accounts she is said to be the wife  of the chief of the gods, Bochica; in others  she is said to be Chibcho, the moon, wife of  Zuhe, the sun, who is considered to be a form  of Bochica. One myth tells how she was trans -  formed into an owl or into the moon.  See also:   bochica; nemterequeteba  Huitzilopochtli   (blue hummingbird on the  left)   In Aztec mythology, a war god associ -  ated with the sun. Ritual human sacrifices of  prisoners were made to him. Huitzilopochtli  was the brother of Quetzalcoatl. His mother,  Coatlicue, one day picked up a ball of bright  Huitzilopochtli   4  5  Huitzilopochtli

=== 페이지 503 ===
feathers on her way to the temple of the sun  god. She placed them in her bosom, and as a  result she became pregnant. When her family  discovered her pregnancy they wanted to kill  her, but Huitzilopochtli was born fully armed  and killed them instead. In a variant myth  Huitzilopochtli was a man who was the leader  of the Aztecs during their wanderings from  home. On his death, or when he returned to  heaven, his skull became an oracle and told  them what to do. Bernal Díaz del Castillo, in  his   Verdadera historia de la conquista de la Nueva  España,   which gives an eyewitness account of  the Spanish conquest, describes the shrine of  Huitzilopochtli, in which “the walls of the  oratory were black and dripping with gouts  of   blood”   and   the   floor   “stank   horribly.”  D. H. Lawrence, in his novel   The Plumed  Serpent,   which   tells   of   the   reintroduction  of Aztec gods to modern Mexico to replace  Christ, includes a series of poems in honor of  Huitzilopochtli.  See also:   coatlicue; quetzalcoatl  Humbaba   (Huwawa,   Kumbaba)   In   the  Babylonian epic poem   Gilgamesh,   demon-spir -  it, guardian of the sacred Cedar Tree, killed by  Gilgamesh and Enkidu. Originally Humbaba  may have been a nature divinity who became  associated   with   evil   forces.   In   one   ancient  prayer he was called the “supporter of evil”  and “the merciless demon.” In Babylonian art  Humbaba is often portrayed with a beard made  of the entrails of animals. Demon masks were  often hung on doors to ward off evil, in the  belief that greater evil—namely, Humbaba—  would defeat some minor evil spirit.  See also:   enkidu; gilgamesh  Hunab Ku   (the only god)   In Mayan mythol -  ogy, incorporeal god, father of Itzamná, the  sky and sun god. He married Ixazaluch, the  goddess of water, with whom he had a son,  Itzamna, a literate and cultured immortal. No  images of Hunab Ku were made.  See also:   itzamná  Hunahpú and Xbalanqúe   In Mayan myth-  ology, twin hero gods in the   Popol Vuh,   the  sacred book of the ancient Quiché Maya of  Guatemala.  One   day   Hun-Hunahpú,   the   father   of  Hunahpú and Xbalanqúe, while playing ball  with his brothers, came within the vicinity of  Xibalba, the underworld in Mayan mythology.  The lords of Xibalba challenged Hun-Hunahpú  to a ball game, and eventually he and his broth -  ers were tortured and killed. Hun-Hunahpú’s  head was placed on a tree, which instantly  bore fruit. Some time later, Xquic (little blood  or blood of a woman), the daughter of a lord  named Cuchumaquic, went to pick the fruit  from the tree. She reached up, and some spittle  from the skull fell into her palm.  “In my saliva and spittle I have given you  my descendants,” the tree said to Xquic. The  girl then gave birth to Hunahpú and Xbal -  anqúe. As their father had before them, they  encountered the lords of Xibalba. When they  arrived in the underworld, they were told to  sit down.  “This is not a seat for us; it is only a hot  stone,” the two told the lords. They then were  told to enter the House of Gloom, then the  House of Knives, then the House of Jaguars,  and the House of Bats, where they encountered  the vampire-bat god, Camazotz.  To protect themselves, they hid inside a  blowgun. All night bats flew around them but  could not touch them. When morning came,  Hunahpú went to see if it was light, and Cam -  azotz cut off his head. Hunahpú’s head was  placed in the ball court by the Xibalbans while  a turtle took its place. Eventually, however, his  head was restored. The two heroes went on to  defeat the lords of Xibalba by using many magic  means. They would kill each other and then  restore themselves to life. When the lords saw  this wonder, they also wanted to be killed and  brought back to life. The heroes obliged with  the first part but did not bring the lords back  to life.  See also:   camazotz;   popol vuh  4  6   Humbaba

=== 페이지 504 ===
Hunding   In Norse mythology, a king defeat -  ed by Helgi. He appears in the   Volsunga Saga  and Richard Wagner’s   Die Walküre,   the second  opera of   Der Ring des Nibelungen.   Hunding is  portrayed in Arthur Rackham’s illustrations for  Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   ring des nibelungen, der  Hun-tun   In   Chinese   Taoist   mythology,  Chaos, from whom emerged the world. Shû,  the god of the Southern Ocean, and Hu, the  god of the Northern Ocean, were continually  meeting in the land of Hun-tun. He treated  them very well. They consulted together how  they might repay his kindness. “Men all have  seven orifices for the purpose of seeing, hear -  ing, eating, and breathing,” they said, “while  Hun-tun, has not one. Let us try and make  them.” So Shû and Hu placed one orifice in  Hun-tun every day for seven days. At the end  of the seventh day Huntun died. In Chinese,  Shû-hu, the combined names of the two ocean  gods, is the word for lightning. This perhaps  indicates the belief that lightning was respon -  sible for ordering the mass of Chaos. In other  texts Hun-tun is said to be a large yellow  baglike bird; or he is the son of Huang Ti, the  Yellow Emperor, who sent his son into exile.  Hurakán   (Huracán)   (the   one-legged)   In  Mayan mythology, a creator god. In the begin -  ning, according to the   Popol Vuh,   sacred book of  the ancient Quiché Maya of Guatemala, there  was the god Hurakán hovering in the dense and  primeval gloom over a watery waste. Hurakán  passed over the surface of the waters as a mighty  wind, saying one word, “earth.” In response  to this utterance a solid mass rose slowly from  the deep. The gods (there were many) then  took counsel to see what should be done next.  Among the gods were Hunahpú, Gucumatz,  Xpiyacoc, and Xmucané. After some discussion,  it was decided to create animals, which they did.  Then the gods carved wooden mannequins and  gave them life, but they were too puppetlike.  Hurakán sent a great flood to destroy them.  All were drowned except for a few handfuls,  whose descendants are said to be “the little  monkeys that live in the woods.” Later Hurakán  made four perfect men—Balam-Quitzé, Balam-  Agag, Mahucutan, and Iqui-Balam. They are  the ancestors of the Quiché.  See   also:   balam-quitzé;   earth   diver;  gucumatz; hunahpú;   popol vuh;   xpiyacoc  and xmucané  Hushedar, Hushedar-mar, and Soshyant  (Aushedar and Ukhahyadereta, Aushedar-mah  and Ukhshyad-nemangh, Soshans, Soshyans,  Saoshyant, Saoshyas, Saoshyos)  In Persian mythology, three saviors who will  announce the end of the world and its rebirth.  Hushedar, the first savior, “will bring the  creatures back to their proper state.” He will be  born of a virgin from the seed of the prophet  Zarathustra, which has been preserved in a lake.  To prove his mission the sun will stand still at  its noontime position for 10 days. For three  years men will live at peace and see a glimpse of  the future happiness, then evil will again assert  itself, and the second savior, Hushedar-mar,  will come. The sun will then stand still for 20  days, men will no longer eat meat, and they  will be even closer to the final victory of good  over evil. But evil will again arise in the form of  the demon Azhi Dahaka, who will break loose  from his bonds in a cave in Mount Demavend.  When Azhi Dahaka is killed by the hero Kere -  saspa, the third and final savior, Soshyant, will  arrive, all disease and death will be overcome,  and the final judgment will take place.  See also:   azhi dahaka; keresaspa; zara -  thustra  Husheng   (Hoshang, Hoshyang)   In Persian  mythology, king, culture hero, and discoverer  of fire, appearing in the epic poem   Shah Namah  by Firdusi.  Husheng began his reign by destroying a  demon who had killed his father, King Siyamek.  When peace was restored, he went about civiliz -  ing the world, spreading justice. Husheng ruled  Husheng   4 

=== 페이지 505 ===
seven regions of the world. He had power not  only over men but over demons, who obeyed  his commands. The king discovered minerals,  separated iron from stone, invented the art of  the blacksmith, taught men how to cook food,  helped them to irrigate the fields, and most  important, discovered fire. Firdusi describes in  his epic how the king, passing by a mountain,  saw  Something in aspect terrible—its eyes  Fountains of blood; its dreadful mouth  sent forth  Volumes of smoke that darkened all the air.  Fixing his gaze upon the hideous form,  He seized a stone, and with prodigious  force  Hurling it, chanced to strike a jutting rock,  When sparks arose, and presently a fire  O’erspread the plain, in which the monster  perished (James Atkinson translation).  Husheng reigned for some 40 years and was  succeeded by his son Tahumers.  See also:   shah namah ; tahumers  hyacinth   A large fragrant flower of the lily  family. In Greek mythology, the hyacinth is  associated with the love of the god Apollo for  the young boy Hyacinthus, who was killed by a  discus sent by the wind, Zephyr, who was also in  love with the lad. Hyacinthus’s blood was turned  into a flower in his honor, and Apollo decreed  an annual three-day festival, Hyacinthia. On the  first and third days sacrifices were offered to the  dead youth, and his sad fate was recounted in  songs. Wearing garlands was forbidden, and no  bread could be eaten or songs sung to Apollo.  But   on   the   second   day   joy   and   amusement  reigned; hymns in honor of Apollo were intoned,  and citizens kept open house for friends and  relatives. According to variant accounts, it was  from the blood of the hero Ajax that the flower  Apollo and Hyacinthus  4    hyacinth

=== 페이지 506 ===
bloomed, when he lost to Odysseus in a contest  for the arms of Achilles. In Christian symbolism,  the hyacinth stands for prudence, peace of mind,  and desire for heaven.  See also:   achilles; ajax; apollo; odysseus;  zephyr  Hyacinthus   In Greek mythology, a young  man   loved   by   Apollo;   son   of   Amyclas   and  Diomedes   of   Pierus   and   the   Muse   Clio.  Hyacinthus   was   killed   out   of   jealousy   by  Zephyrus,   the   West   Wind,   with   a   discus.  Apollo created a flower named in Hyacinthus’s  honor with Apollo’s cries of grief, “Ai, Ai,”  etched on its petals. Varieties of flowers iden -  tified with Hyacinthus are the hyacinth, iris,  and gladiolus. The hyacinth has come to stand  for mourning. Milton’s   Lycidas   (106) calls it  “that   sanguine   flower   inscrib’d   with   woe.”  Originally, Hyacinthus was a pre-Hellenic god  whose worship was absorbed by Apollo’s cult.  A three-day festival, the Hyacinthia, was held  at Sparta in honor of the god, who was wor -  shipped at Amyclae in Laconia. On the first  day of the festival a sacrifice to the dead was  offered at the grave of Hyacinthus, which was  under a statue of Apollo in the temple. The  following day the people rejoiced. Boys and  girls, accompanied by flutes and harps, went to  the temple of Apollo, where games, competi -  tions, sacrifices, and entertainments took place.  A robe woven by Spartan women was offered  to   Apollo.   Pausanias’s   Descriptions   of   Greece  records a statue of Hyacinthus that portrayed  the god with a beard. The myth of Apollo and  Hyacinthus   is   told   in   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book   10).   One   of   Mozart’s   earliest   works,  Apollo et Hyacinthus,   is set to a Latin text.  See also:   apollo; diomedes; muses; ovid;  zephyrus  Hyarekhshaeta,   Khorshed,   and   Mitro  In Persian mythology, three spirits connected  with   the   sun.   Hyarekhshaeta   is   the   “bril -  liant sun” as the eye of the good god, Ahura  Mazda, and is drawn in a chariot of swift hors -  es. Khorshed is the “undying, shining, swift-  horsed sun,” and Mitro is the angel or spirit of  the sun’s light, a personification of friendship  and good faith. Mitro assists righteous souls in  their passage to the other world and punishes  those who break promises or are fraudulent.  See also:   ahura mazda  Hydra   (water   creature)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, a huge serpent with 7, 9, or 50 heads  (accounts vary) in Lake Lerna in Argolis; off -  spring of Typhon and Echidna. If one head  was chopped off, another two would grow in  its place. Heracles’ second labor was to kill  the monster. With the aid of Iolaus he accom -  plished the feat. The venom of Hydra was  poisonous. Arrows dipped in the venom killed  Cheiron, Nessus, and Philoctetes. Eventually  the poison was used on a garment that killed  Heracles.   Hesiod’s   Theogony,   Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 6), and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 9) all  cite the myth.  See also:   aeneid, the;   echidna; heracles;  nessus; ovid; philoctetes; typhon  Heracles slaying the Hydra  Hydra   4 

=== 페이지 507 ===
hyena   A nocturnal, doglike animal that feeds  mainly on carrion. In Egyptian mythology it  was said that a stone, the “hyaenia,” was found  in the eye of the creature, and when placed  under the tongue it gave the gift of prophecy.  In Greek and Roman folklore it was believed  that the hyena changed its sex and that if you  caught the animal while it was male and cas -  trated it, you could use its testicles to make  a   fine   powder   that   would   cure   cramps.   In  medieval Christian folklore it was believed that  the hyena could imitate the sound of human  voices, often fooling men and dogs, who were  devoured when they responded to the call. The  hyena was also believed to mate with the lion,  producing the Crocote, which had no teeth or  gums in its mouth; all of its teeth were of one  piece, like a box lid. Medieval Christian sym -  bolism saw the hyena as representing the devil,  vice, impurity, and hypocrisy.  Hygeia   (health)   In Greek mythology, god -  dess   of   health,   daughter   of   Asclepius   and  Epione; sister of Acesis, Aegle, Iaso, Janiscus,  Machaon, Panacea, and Podalirius; called Salus  by the Romans. She was worshipped along with  her father, and her name follows after his in the  Hippocratic oath.  See also:   asclepius  Hylas   (of the woods)   In Greek mythology,  an Argonaut, male lover of Heracles; son of  Theiodamas, king of the Dryope, and Menodice,  a nymph. When Heracles killed Theiodamas  (divine tamer) for refusing the gift of a plow ox,  he spared his son Hylas, who became his lover.  The two went on the voyage of the Argonauts  in search of the Golden Fleece. They landed at  Cios, and Hylas went to fetch water at a foun -  tain. He was drowned there by a water nymph,  Pegae or Dryope, who had fallen in love with  the handsome youth. Heracles went in search  of Hylas with his sister’s son Polyphemus, leav -  ing the Argonauts to go on without him. Failing  to find Hylas, Heracles did not leave the island  until he had taken hostages from the Mysians.  He made them promise to produce Hylas, dead  or alive. From that time on, the inhabitants of  Cios made a ritual search for Hylas, sacrificed to  him every year at the fountain, and called him  by name three times. Apollonius Rhodius’s short  epic   Argonautica   (The Voyage of the Argo) tells  the myth.  See also:   argonauts; golden fleece; her -  acles; nymphs  Hymen   (skin)   In Greek mythology, god of  marriage, son of either Dionysus and Aphrodite  or of Apollo and one of the Muses, Urania,  Calliope,   or   Terpsichore.   According   to   one  account Hymen was an Argive youth who loved  a young Athenian girl but could not win the  consent of her parents. Disguised as a girl, he  followed her to the sacred feast of Demeter at  Eleusis, where he and a group of girls were kid -  napped. Hymen saved all of them by killing the  abductors and became the protector of young  women. At Greek weddings the guests would  cry out, “Hymen O Hymeneaus!” Eventually,  the call came to represent a god of marriage who  was seen as a young man holding a marriage  torch and wearing a wreath. Spenser’s wedding  poem   Epithalamion   (25–29) asks his bride to  awake from her sleep for “Hymen is awake.” He  appears or is cited in numerous English marriage  songs and masques of the 17th century. Hymen  is also called Hymenaeus.  See   also:   aphrodite; apollo; calliope;  demeter; dionysus; muses; terpsichore  Hymir   (the dark one)   In Norse mythology,  a sea giant who owned a large caldron that the  gods wanted. Tyr and Thor went off to fetch  it from the giant. In one telling of the myth  Tyr eventually killed Hymir. In another version  Thor knocked Hymir overboard from a ship,  and he drowned. The myth is told in the poem  Hymigkuitha   in the   Poetic Edda   and in the   Prose  Edda.   In another myth, Hymir and Thor went  fishing   together   and   ventured   into   unchart -  ed waters. When Thor hooked the Midgard  Serpent, Hymir cut the line and allowed the  4  0   hyena

=== 페이지 508 ===
serpent to survive. The episode is often depicted  in drawings and carvings, with Thor’s feet pro -  truding through the bottom of the boat while he  has the serpent on his fishing line.  See also:   midgard serpent;   prose edda ;  thor  Hyperboreans   (beyond-the-north-wind  men)   In   Greek   mythology,   a   people   who  lived in everlasting springtime north of the  great river Oceanus, or at the North Pole, or  in Britain. They were worshippers of Apollo,  who, according to their belief, spent the winter  months with them when he left his shrine at  Delphi. Herodotus’s   History   (book 4) says the  Hyperboreans sent wheat-straw offerings to  Apollo’s shrine at Delos. Heracles brought the  first olive tree to Olympus from their land,  according to some accounts.  See also:   apollo; delos; delphi; heracles;  oceanus  Hyperion   (the one above)   In Greek myth-  ology,   a   Titan,   son   of   Uranus   and   Gaea;  husband   of   his   sister   Theia;   father   of   the  Sun (Helios), the Dawn (Eos), and the Moon  (Selene), according to Hesiod’s   Theogony   (371  ff). Hyperion is sometimes used as the name  of the sun itself. In some accounts Hyperion is  said to be a son of Apollo. Keats’s unfinished  poem   Hyperion   (1818) tells how Hyperion, the  last of the Titans, is about to be deposed by  Apollo, the Olympian sun god.  See   also:   apollo; gaea; hesiod; selene;  titans; uranus  Hypermnestra   (excessive wooing)   In Greek  mythology,   eldest   of   the   50   daughters   of  Danaus, and the only one of the Danaidae who  did not murder her husband (Lynceus) on her  wedding night. She and Lynceus were the par -  ents of Abas, ancestor of the hero Perseus.  See also:   danaidae; doris; perseus  Hypnos   (sleep)   In Greek mythology, god of  sleep, son of Nyx (Nox) and Erebus; brother  of Thanatos (death), Aether (upper sky), Cer  (bane),   Dreams,   Hemeia,   Momus   (blame),  Moros   (portion),   and   Nemesis;   married   to  Pasithea; father of Morpheus; called Somnus  by the Romans. According to Hesiod’s   Theogony  (211,756), Hypnos lived in the underworld, but  Homer says he lived in Lemnos. Hypnos had  a human figure during the day but was trans -  formed into a bird at night. Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 6) pictures Hypnos as a winged youth  who touches the tired with a magical branch.  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 14), Hesiod’s   Theogony,  and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11) also picture  the god.  See also:   aeneid, the ;   iliad, the ; morpheus;  nemesis; nox; ovid; thanatos  Hypsipyle   (high   gate)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy,   queen   of   Lemnos;   daughter   of   Thoas  and Myrina; wife of Jason; mother of Euneus  (Evenus), Deipylus, Nebrophonus, and Thoas.  Hypsipyle did not kill her father when all of the  women on Lemnos killed all of the men. When  the Argonauts came to the island, all of the  women were raped, and Hypsipyle became the  wife of Jason, who abandoned her. Later the  women of Lemnos exiled Hypsipyle to Nemea.  Ovid’s   Heroides   (book 6) and Chaucer’s   Legend  of Good Women   report her sad fate.  See also:   argonauts; chaucer; jason; ovid  Hypsipyle   4 

=== 페이지 509 ===
6  4  2  Iatiku   (Iyatiku) (bringing to life)   In North  American Indian mythology (Acoma), creator  goddess along with her sister Natsiti. Their  children, the Katsinas, have the power to bring  rain and food. Some sources give the names  of the two goddesses as Utset and Nowutset.  Iatiku watches over people and promotes their  general welfare. She is often identified as the  breath of life.  ibis   A large wading bird related to the heron,  with a long, thin, downward-curved bill. In  Egyptian mythology the ibis was associated  with Thoth. The ancient Greeks believed it  was the natural enemy of snakes.  See also:   thoth  Iblis   (slanderer)   Satan   in   Islamic   folklore,  originally an angel called Azazel or al-Haris; he  is the father of the djinn. When Allah was form -  ing man, he took clay and after shaping it left it  to dry for some 40 days (or 40 years, according  to some Islamic versions of the myth). All of the  malaika,   or angels, who were created from rays  of light, came to see Allah’s new creation. Iblis,  one of Allah’s most important angels, appeared  among them. He looked at the new creation  and, knowing that Allah intended to make it  more important than any angel, kicked it with  his foot until it resounded. Allah then called all  of the angels to come and worship Adam. Iblis  refused because, as the Koran (sura 2) phrases it,  he “was puffed up with pride.”  When   Allah   in   anger   cast   Iblis   out   of  heaven, the angel cried: “Allah, grant me time.  Do not banish me to outer darkness yet. Let  me tempt Adam and his sons. Then we will see  if they have faith!”  “I will give you until the Day of Judgment,”  Allah replied. “When that day comes, you will  regret your evil deeds and pay dearly for them.  You will be cast into a dark pit, never again to  harm any souls. Now, out! Leave heaven.”  Since that day Iblis has been tempting the  sons of Adam to sin against Allah. Iblis is the  father of Teer (Tir), the demon who brings  about calamities, injuries, and losses of various  kinds; El-Aawar, who encourages men to live  in debauchery; Sot (Sut), who gives men the  desire to lie; Dasism, who causes husbands and  wives to fight with one another. (Harut and  Marut, the Brothers of Iblis, also cause divi -  sion between husband and wife.) Iblis is also  the father of Zeleboor (Zalambur), who hovers  over places of traffic, causing accidents and  mischief. Since the invention of the automobile  this demon has been kept astonishingly busy.  In Western literature Iblis appears in William  Beckford’s novel   Vathek, an Arabian Tale.  See also:   azazel; harut and marut; satan  i

=== 페이지 510 ===
Ichabod Crane   In American literary folklore,  a creation of Washington Irving in “The Legend  of Sleepy Hollow,” included in   The Sketch Book.  Ichabod   looks   like   “some   scarecrow   eloped  from a corn-field,” according to Irving. He is in  love with Katrina Van Tassel, daughter of a rich  Dutch farmer in Sleepy Hollow on the Hudson  in the days before the American Revolution. But  his rival, Brom Van Brunt, outwits the Yankee  schoolteacher. One night at a party, Ichabod  leaves, riding a borrowed plow horse. On his  way he is frightened by a headless horseman that  rides after him and throws a round object at the  terrified schoolmaster. Ichabod leaves the village  never to be seen again. The next day the round  object is discovered to be a pumpkin. Brunt  then marries Katrina. The tale was used as the  basis of Max Maretzek’s opera   Sleepy Hollow: or,  The Headless Horseman ; Douglas Moore’s one-  act opera   The Headless Horseman: or, A Legend of  Sleepy Hollow   with a libretto by Stephen Vincent  Benét; and Walt Disney’s cartoon feature   Ichabod  and Mr. Toad,   in which Irving’s legend is narrated  by Basil Rathbone.  See also:   motif  Ichimokuren   (one-eye)   In Japanese myth -  ology, one-eyed god invoked to obtain rain  during periods of drought.  I   Ching   (the   book   of   changes)   Chinese  work ascribed to the legendary Emperor Fu  Hsi. It is a book of cosmological hexagrams  giving   the   laws   by   which   things   change,  used to foretell the future. It is regarded as  a practical book and was one of those, along  with books on agriculture and medicine, that  were not ordered burned by the first emperor  of China in his effort to control thought by  destroying   philosophical   books.   The   book  was also regarded as full of wisdom. Confucius  said, “If I could study the   I Ching   for many  years, I should be faultless.” He read his copy  so often that the binding twice wore out. He  is said to have written some appendices to it.  In the Western world it has been regarded as  an occult work.  See also:   confucius  icon   (Greek   eikon : image)   Term used in the  Eastern Orthodox Church for pictures, low-  relief sculptures, and mosaics of Christ, the  Virgin   Mary,   and   the   saints.   Icons   became  popular in the East in the fifth century. In style,  icons are hieratic, idealized images. Tradition  rather than self-expression is the aim of the  artist painting an icon. During the eighth and  ninth centuries there was a reaction against  icons, called the Iconoclastic Controversy. The  triumph of those who defended icons is still cel -  ebrated as the Feast of Orthodoxy in the Eastern  Church. Icons are kissed, genuflected to, and  incensed because they are believed to exercise  powers such as healing. Numerous icons have  had miracles credited to them in legends: for  example, the Christ of Edessa, which is said  “not to have been made with hands” but to have  come from heaven. According to another leg -  end, the icon of Our Lady of Iviron was thrown  into the sea by iconoclasts at Constantinople  and was washed onto the shore of Mount Athos  years later. The Russian church commemorates  Our Lady of Iviron on 13 October.  Ida   In Hindu mythology, goddess of speech  and, in some texts, the earth. In the Rig-Veda,  an ancient collection of hymns to the gods, she  is primarily food, refreshment, or a libation of  milk. One myth says she sprang up when the first  man performed a sacrifice to obtain children.  The two were then married and had children.  See also:   rig-vida  Idaten   In Japanese Buddhist mythology, god  of peace and contemplation. Portrayed as a  young man of martial bearing, he carries a hal -  berd. The loose parts of his garment are kept in  place by his feet as a symbol of subdued sexual -  ity. He also is sometimes portrayed with both  hands resting on the pommel of his sword.  Idaten   4  3

=== 페이지 511 ===
Idomeneus   (knowing one)   In Greek myth -  ology, king of Crete, Leucus, son of Deucalion;  brother of Crete; husband of Meda; father of  Idamente. Idomeneus went to the Trojan War  with 80 ships and achieved great fame as a  warrior. On his way home a storm arose, and  he vowed to Poseidon that he would sacrifice  the first person he encountered on landing if  the storm ceased. The sacrificial victim turned  out to be his own son Idamante. Leucus, lover  of Meda, banished Idomeneus to Italy for the  murder. Mozart’s opera   Idomeneo re di Creta,  Ossia Ilia ed Adamante   (1781) deals with part of  the myth.  See also:   deucalion; poseidon  Iduna   (Idunn)   (rejuvenation)   In   Norse   myth -  ology, one of the Aesir; goddess of the golden  apples of immortal youth, food of the gods;  wife of the god Bragi. Loki, the fire-trickster  god, was forced by the giant Thjassi to trick  the goddess Iduna. Odin, Hoenir, and Loki  were out traveling. They were unable to cook  an ox they had killed. An eagle in the tree,  actually the giant Thjassi, said he would cook  it for them if he could have some too. When  he took too much, Loki struck him with a staff  that stuck to the eagle as he flew away, with  Loki still holding on to the staff. He would  only be freed if he agreed to bring Thjassi one  of Iduna’s apples. Loki then lured Iduna into  the forest and told her that he had found apples  growing a short distance from her celestial  residence that were of much better quality than  her own, and he persuaded her to go and look  at them. Deceived by Loki’s words, Iduna took  her apples and went with him into the forest.  When they entered the forest, Thjassi, covered  in his eagle plumage, swooped down and took  Iduna and her apples into his claws and flew  off to Jotunheim, the home of the giants. The  gods, deprived of their magic apples, began  to wrinkle and turn gray, old age creeping  fast upon them. When they discovered that  Loki had caused all the trouble they threat -  ened to punish him unless he could get Iduna  back. Loki borrowed the goddess Freyja’s fal -  con plumage and flew to Jotunheim. Finding  Thjassi out fishing, Loki lost no time in chang -  ing Iduna into a sparrow and flying off with  her. When Thjassi returned and discovered  what had happened, he put on his eagle plum -  age and gave chase. When the gods saw Loki  approaching, holding Iduna transformed into a  sparrow between his claws and Thjassi with his  outspread eagle wings ready to overtake them,  they placed on the wall of Asgard bundles of  chips, which they set afire the instant Loki had  flown over them. As Thjassi could not stop his  flight, the fire caught his plumage; he fell and  and was killed by the gods. The myth of Iduna  is told in the   Prose Edda.  See   also:   aesir; jotunheim; loki;   prose  edda  Ifrits   (Afrit, Afriteh, Alfrit, Efreet, Ifriteh)   In  Islamic mythology, spirits often evil but some -  times good. They are but one of the five classes  of djinn, or devils. The Koran (sura 27) makes  a brief mention of the “Ifrit, one of the djinn.”  In Egyptian Islamic folklore an Ifrit means the  ghost of a murdered man or one who died a  violent death. Yet the female version of the Ifrit,  called the Ifriteh, mentioned in   The Thousand  and One Nights,   is a benevolent djinn. In one  tale, “Second Old Man’s Story” (night 2), a  pious woman is transformed into an Ifriteh and  carries a hero to an island to save his life. In the  morning she returns and says: “I have paid thee  my debt, for it is I who bore thee up out of the  sea and saved thee from death, by permission of  Allah. Know that I am of the djinn who believe  in Allah and his prophet.” Thus, some Ifrits are  good spirits, converted to Islam.  See also:   djinn; koran, the;   thousand and  one nights  Ignatius of Antioch, St.   (fiery?)   (c. 35–107)  In Christian legend, martyr and bishop. Feast,  1 February.  According to numerous early Christian leg -  ends, Ignatius was a friend of the early church -  4  4   Idomeneus

=== 페이지 512 ===
man St. Polycarp, both being disciples of St.  John the Evangelist. One early tradition says  that when Ignatius was a child Christ “set him  in the midst” of his disciples. Ignatius took holy  orders and was made bishop of Antioch. When  the Roman emperor Trajan came to the city,  he ordered Ignatius to sacrifice to the Roman  gods. Ignatius refused and was sentenced to be  eaten by lions. After his death in 107 the name  Jesus was found written on his heart in golden  letters.  See also:   john the evangelist, st.  Ignatius of Loyola, St.   (Ignatius Loyola)  (fiery)   (1491–1556)   In   Christian   legend,  founder of the Society of Jesus (S.J.), known as  the Jesuits. Feast, 31 July.  Born in Spain, Ignatius became a page at  the court of King Ferdinand. He entered the  army and was severely wounded in 1521. That  changed his whole future life. After a period  of penance and visions of Christ, he began to  study in preparation for a career in preach -  ing. While at Paris he formed a community  with five associates, who bound themselves to  preach and teach in any part of the world to  which they might be sent. After some years  the pope confirmed the name of the Society  of Jesus. Ignatius became the first general of  his order. His most famous work,   The Spiri -  tual Exercises,   describes a retreat of several  days during which the soul, removed from all  intercourse with the world, is occupied with  the “all important business of salvation” of  one’s soul.  St. Ignatius of Loyola is portrayed in one  of Rubens’s masterpieces,   The Miracles of St.  Ignatius Loyola,   in a magnificent cathedral, dra -  matically imploring God to exorcise demons  from the sick and lame. He wears Mass vest -  ments. Sometimes the saint is portrayed with  the monogram IHS on his breast.  Igraine   (Igerna, Igerne, Ygerne)   In Arthu r -  ian   legend,   mother   of   King   Arthur   and  wife of Gorlois, lord of Tintagel Castle in  Cornwall.   According   to   one   account,   King  Uther Pendragon tried to seduce Igraine but  failed. As a result Uther and Gorlois fought,  and Gorlois was killed. Uther then attacked  Tintagel   and   forced   Igraine   to   become   his  wife. Nine months later, Uther died, and on  the same day King Arthur was born. Tennyson  calls her Ygerne.  See also:   arthur: uther pendragon  Ikazuchi   In Japanese mythology, the eight  gods of thunder. They are O-Ikazuchi, Ho-no-  Ikazuchi, Kuro-Ikazuchi, Saku-Ikazuchi, Waki-  Ikazuchi, Tschui-Ikazuchi, Naru-Ikazuchi, and  Fushi-Ikazuchi.  See also:   fushi-ikazuchi; ho-no-ikazuchi;  o-ikazuchi; saku-ikazuchi; waki-ikazuchi  Ikiryo   In Japanese folklore, the ghost of a  living person, his double. St. Ignatius of Loyola  Ikiryo   4  5

=== 페이지 513 ===
Iktomi   (Unktomi)   In   North   American  Indian mythology (Dakota and Lakota), trick -  ster who invented human speech.  See also:   trickster; unktomi  Iku   In African mythology (Yoruba of south -  western Nigeria), the death spirit or god.  Ildefonso, St.   (657–667)   In Christian leg -  end, archbishop of Toledo, Spain, and patron  saint of the city; also Doctor of the Church.  Feast, 23 January.  Ildefonso was noted for his devotion to the  Virgin Mary. She appeared to him one day and  said, “You are my chaplain and faithful notary.  Receive from me this chasuble [outer vestment]  which my Son sends you from His treasury.”  Then the Virgin placed the chasuble on Ilde -  fonso. From that time Ildefonso never sat in  the bishop’s throne nor wore the holy garment.  After his death another bishop attempted to  wear the chasuble and died as a result. El Greco  painted St. Ildefonso.  See also:   virgin mary  Ilé-Ifé   (house wide)   In African mythology  (Yoruba of southwestern Nigeria), the place of  creation. One Nigerian myth says that when  the earth was created, God sent a chameleon  to examine it. He found the earth to be wide  enough but not dry enough. The place was  called Ifé (wide); later Ilé (house) was added to  show that from this “house” all things origi -  nated.  Ilmarinen   (maker of the sky?)   In the Finnish  epic poem   The Kalevala,   the smith, forger of  the magic sampo.  Ilmarinen   constructed   the   magic   sampo,  a three-sided mill that ground out salt, grain,  and money. It was intended for Vainamoinen  to give Louhi, the evil mistress of Pohjola, the  Northland, to woo her daughter, the Maiden of  Pohjola. However, it was Ilmarinen, not Vain -  amoinen, who won the bride. After the Maiden  of Pohjola was murdered, Ilmarinen set out  again to Pohjola to woo the sister of his former  wife. When the girl refused him, he abducted  her. She reviled Ilmarinen, who out of anger  turned her into a seagull.  The hero then constructed a woman of  gold and silver to replace his dead wife. All  was fine, except there was no life in the crea -  ture. At night he lay beside his golden bride  and awoke the next morning realizing that his  wife was cold. He offered his golden bride to  Vainamoinen, who rejected the offer, telling  Ilmarinen to melt down his bride for gold.  One of Ilmarinen’s last creative acts was to  forge a new moon and sun after the evil mis -  tress Louhi had locked up the sun and moon.  But, as in the case of the golden bride, the new  moon and sun did not shine or have life.  Ilmarinen originally may have been a god,  but all traces of his divinity have disappeared  from his life as told in   The Kalevala.  See also:   louhi; maiden of pohjola;   kal -  evala, the, t  he , the ; sampo; vainamoinen  Ilya Muromets   (Ilya of Murom, Ilia Muro -  metz, Ilya-Muromyets)   In Russian folklore,  hero of superhuman strength who appears in  the   bylini,   the epic songs, as well as in numer -  ous folktales.  Ilya Muromets was a   bogatyr,   an epic hero,  who had been a sickly child and could not  move until he was 33 years old. Then two pass -  ing pilgrims gave him a “honey draught” that  made him powerful. He used his strength to  defend Christianity against the “infidels” and  invaders from outside Russia. He traveled great  distances   on   his   wondrous   horse   Sivushko.  In one of the   bylini   Ilya destroyed “the mon -  strous pagan idol” that came to the city of Kiev  “breathing threats, striving to inspire fear” in  the people. Ilya cut the idol in two. The hero’s  end was sad, for he boasted of his deeds before  God and as a result was turned into stone.  Ilya is a combination of various Russian leg -  endary and mythological characters. Some see  him as a pre-Christian Svyatogor, but recent  scholarship does not support this. Some of  4  6   Iktomi

=== 페이지 514 ===
his attributes, such as his miraculous bow, are  similar to those of the pagan Slavic god Pyerun.  With his bow he could bring down church  cupolas and split oaks into thin slivers. There  is some evidence that Ilya Muromets actually  might have lived in the 12th century. The peas -  ants of Murom, for instance, are noted for their  strength and size to this day.  The   Russian   composer   Reinhold   Glière  used Ilya Muromets’ legends for his mammoth  third symphony, titled   Ilya Muromets.  See also:   bylina; pyerun; svyatogor  Imana   (almighty)   In   African   mythology  (Banyarwanda   of   Ruanda-Urundi),   creator  god   who   tried   to   save   man   from   Death.  Thought of in human form, Imana is believed  to be a large person with very long arms. He  is a beneficent deity who tried once to stop  Death   but   failed.   Imana   ordered   everyone  to stay indoors while he hunted Death. But  one woman went out, and Death asked her  to hide him. She consented and opened her  mouth. He jumped inside, and she swallowed  him. This angered Imana, who then allowed  Death to have its way with humankind. Imana  is also credited with creating the first man,  Kazikamuntu (root of man), who had many  children.   Their   continual   fighting   caused  them to disperse, and that is why mankind is  found in every part of the earth.  See also:   abuk and garang; kalumba  Imhotep   (he   who   comes   in   peace)   In  Egyptian history and legend, a god of knowl -  edge and healing who lived at the court of King  Zoser during the Third Dynasty (2635–2570  b.c.e. ). His tomb in the desert near Memphis  and the nearby temple, the Asklepion, became  a place of pilgrimage for the sick and also for  childless couples. He is said to have designed  the   Step   Pyramid.   An   architect   and   artist,  Imhotep was deified and was invoked by sub -  sequent generations. He was said to be the son  of the god Ptah and was worshipped in a triad  of gods at Memphis. He is usually portrayed  as a priest with a shaved head reading a scroll  while seated. The Greeks identified him with  Asclepius.  See also:   asclepius; ptah  Imilozi   (whistlers)   In   African   mythology  (Zulu), ancestral spirits who whistle when they  speak to man.  Inanna   (lady   of   heaven)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology (Sumerian), Great Mother goddess  from whom Ishtar, the great Near Eastern god -  dess, is derived. Inanna was goddess of fertil -  ity. Although associated with many beneficent  aspects of nature, she was also believed to be  demonic, destroying her numerous male lov -  ers. Her most famous lover was Dumuzi (the  true, or faithful, one), a form of Tammuz, who  presided over agriculture. Dumuzi was also god  of the underworld and was called the shepherd  and lord of the sheepfolds. In some myths, even  though he was Inanna’s husband, she had him  destroyed in order to save her life. Most of the  myths associated with Inanna were adopted by  Ishtar’s cult.  See also:   great goddess; ishtar; tammuz  Ilya Muromets   (I. Bilibin)  Inanna   4 

=== 페이지 515 ===
Inapertwa   In Australian mythology, two sky  gods who formed human beings with stone  knives.  Inaras   In Near Eastern mythology (Hittite),  goddess   who   helped   slay   the   evil   dragon  Illuyankas. She made the dragon drunk with  wine, and with the aid of her lover, Hupasiyas,  she had the dragon trussed up with a cord and  killed by the weather god. As a reward for help -  ing her, Inaras had a house constructed for her  lover Hupasiyas but told him never to look out  the window or he would see his mortal wife  and children. He disobeyed and was killed by  Inaras.  Inari   In Japanese mythology, god of rice,  often portrayed as a bearded old man sitting on  a sack of rice, flanked on either side by a fox.  The foxes are his messengers, but often they  are confused with the god in popular imagina -  tion. Inari is also regarded as the god of pros -  perity and patron of tradesmen.  Indarapatra   In   Philippine   mythology,   a  hero who killed various monsters. His brother  was Sulayman, who slew three monsters with  his magic ring but was killed by Pah, a huge  bird, when he attempted to kill the fourth.  Indarapatra   killed   the   fourth   monster   with  the magic water of life. Later he rescued some  women and was given one for a wife.  See also:   water of life  Indigetes   (Indiges, singular) (indigenous)   In  Greek and Roman mythology, the epithet was  given to deified heroes such as Achilles, Aeneas,  Heracles, and Romulus. In Roman religion,  Indigetes were local deities worshipped only  in particular places.   Variant spelling : Indiges  (singular).  See   also:   achilles;   aeneas;   heracles;  romulus and remus  Indo-European   hypothesis   Folklorists   of  the late 18th century and throughout the 19th  century found multiple and easily recognizable  variants of individual tales: myths, legends, and  folktales. They attempted to account for them  through the concepts of monogenesis and poly -  genesis. If an item such as the Earth Diver myth  were found in multiple societies, it could be  viewed as having a common origin. The assump -  tion was that there was a single ancestral society  for the peoples of Europe, who were related  historically by virtue of a descendancy from a  common cultural base. The common base was  what we now refer to as Indo-European, and  means   simply   those   languages,   peoples,   and  cultures from India to Europe. Each offshoot  had maintained a common set of ancestral tradi -  tions, but all had also created distinctive forms  through time. Such a thesis was based on mono -  genesis but allowed for oikotypification, vari -  ants, versions, and easily clarified such concepts  as continuity, survivals, and revivals.  See also:   continuity; earth diver; mono -  genesis and polygenesis; oikotypification;  revival; survival; variant  Indra   In Hindu mythology, the storm god,  who governs the weather and dispenses rain,  sending lightning and thunder with his thun -  derbolt, Vajra.  Indra, whose mother was Nishtigri, is fre -  quently mentioned in the Rig-Veda, the ancient  collection of hymns to the gods, as being at war  with Vritra, the demon of drought and inclem -  ent weather. One hymn cites a battle with Vri -  tra (restrainer):  I will declare the manly deeds of Indra  the first that he achieved, the thunder-  wielder.  He slew Vritra, then disclosed the waters,  And cleft the channels of the mountain  torrents.   .   .   .  Footless and handless still, Vritra chal -  lenged Indra, who smote him with his  bolt between the shoulders.  Emasculate yet claiming manly vigor,  thus Vritra lay with scattered limbs.  4    Inapertwa

=== 페이지 516 ===
Another hymn in the collection calls Indra  Highest of Immortals light,  God of gods by lofty might,  He, before whose prowess high  Tremble earth and upper sky,  He is,—mortals, hear my verse,—  Indra, Lord of Universe!  The high position accorded Indra in the  Rig-Veda   is   not   mentioned   in   later   Hindu  mythology, where he is placed in the second  rank of the gods. Indra is ruler of the atmo -  sphere and of the east quarter of the compass.  He reigns, with his wife, Indrani, in Swarga,  Indra’s heaven, located on Mount Meru. Some -  times Indra’s capital is called Deva-pura (city of  the gods) or Pusha-bhasa (sun splendor).  One later myth, recorded in the Hindu epic  The Ramayama,   indicates Indra’s lesser posi -  tion in the Hindu pantheon. Megha-nada, a  demon who had the power of being invisible,  used his magic gift to capture Indra and carried  off the god to Lanka (Sri Lanka). The gods,  headed by Brahma, called the demon Indra-jit  (conqueror of Indra). The demon asked for the  gift of immortality if the gods wished Indra  freed. Brahma refused but finally gave in to  the demand. In one version of   The Ramayana,  however, it says that Indra-jit was killed and his  head cut off.  In Indian art Indra is portrayed as a man  with four arms holding a lance and thunder -  bolt, or with two arms and eyes all over his  body, giving him the epithet Sahasraksha (the  thousand-eyed). Indra is usually shown riding  the   elephant   Airavata,   which   was   produced  during the churning of the ocean when the  gods and demons fought for the Amrita, the  water   of   life.   Indra’s   horse   is   Uccaihsravas  (neighing loudly, or longeared).  Indra has many epithets and titles, among  them   Vritra-hatta   (the   destroyer   of   Vritra)  and Vajra-pani (of the thunderbolt). His two  weapons are the   chakra,   the wheel or discus  that cuts off limbs with its sharp edge, and  the   svastika   or   vajra   (thunderbolt), which can  be a whirling thunderbolt. Other epithets are  Megha-vahana (borne upon the clouds), Deva-  pati (chief of the gods), Divas-pati (ruler of the  atmosphere), Marutwan (lord of the winds),  and   Swarga-pate   (lord   of   paradise).   Indra’s  chariot is called Vimana; his charioteer, Matali;  his bow (the rainbow), Sakradhanus; and his  sword, Paran-ja.  See also:   churning of the ocean; indrani;  ramayana, the ; rig-veda; uccaihsravas; vri -  tra  Indrani   In Hindu mythology, wife of Indra,  the storm god. In the Rig-Veda, a collection of  hymns to the gods, Indrani is called the most  fortunate of females, “for her husband shall  never die of old age.” Indra chose Indrani as his  wife because of her sexual appeal. She was rav -  ished by Indra, who killed her father to escape Indra  Indrani   4 

=== 페이지 517 ===
his curse. She was never held in high esteem as  a goddess.  See also:   indra; rig-veda  Inéz   de   Castro,   Doña   (Died   1355)   In  Portuguese history and legend, murdered mis -  tress of King Pedro I of Portugal. In 1325  Alfonso IV, the Brave, came to the throne.  His son, Dom Pedro, was married to Princess  Constanza but was in love with her lady-in-  waiting Doña Inéz de Castro, who bore Pedro  four children. After Constanza’s death, King  Alfonso feared Doña Inéz’s power over his son  and had her murdered. Dom Pedro revolted  against his father and was made king in 1357,  when he issued a general pardon for the mur -  derers. In 1360, however, he had two of them  tortured to death. A legend arose that Pedro  had the corpse of his beloved Inéz exhumed  and crowned queen. Luiz de Camoes’ epic  poem   The Lusiads   (book 3) tells the legend.  Doña Inéz is the subject of Juaquin Serra’s bal -  let   Doña Inéz de Castro   and Thomas Pasatieri’s  opera   Inés de Castro.  Inti   In Inca mythology, the sun, from whom  the Incas believed they were descended. Married  to his sister Mama Quilla, the moon, Inti was  portrayed as a human, his face represented by  a disk of gold surrounded by rays of flames.  Inti was also called Apu-Punchau (the head  of day). Every night Inti plunged into the sea,  swam under it through the night, and emerged  refreshed in the morning.  See also:   catequil; chasca; cucha; mama  quilla  Inua   In Eskimo mythology (Unalit peoples  at Bering Strait), shade or soul of a person.  Io   (moon)   In Greek mythology, priestess of  Hera and daughter of the river god Inachus  and Melia, a priestess of Hera at Argos. Zeus  seduced   the   young   virgin   Io.   Afterward   he  transformed her into a heifer to protect her  from   the   everjealous   Hera.   Other   accounts  say Hera transformed her as a punishment for  submitting to Zeus. Hera chose Argus, a being  with 100 eyes, to watch over Io. Her father,  Inachus, looking for his daughter, discovered  the heifer, who wrote out her name with her  hoof, but Inachus could not help her. At last,  Hermes lulled Argus to sleep with songs and  stories, then cut off his head. Not giving up,  Hera sent a gadfly to punish Io. Io wandered  to Egypt, where she was restored to human  shape and bore Epaphus, a son of Zeus. The  Ionian Sea, according to some accounts, is  named after Io, who swam across it after she  was changed into a heifer. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 1) tells the myth of Io, and she appears in  Aeschylus’s   Prometheus Bound.   In Roman art she  appears on the frescoes of the house of Livia on  the Palatine in Rome. Correggio painted   Io and  Jupiter   (Zeus).  See also:   argus; hera; hermes; ovid; zeus  Iocauna   In the mythology of the Indians  of the Antilles during the time of Columbus,  one   of   the   names   of   their   supreme   god.  Although Iocauna was “one, eternal, omnipo -  tent, and invisible,” according to Peter Martyr  d’Anghera’s account in   De Orbe Novo   (1516),  the Indians believed he had a mother, who  was known by five names: Attabira (Atabex),  Mamon,   Guacarapita,   Tella,   and   Guimazoa.  Iocauna was also called Guamaonocon or Yochu  Vagua Maorocoti.  Ion   (he who goes)   In Greek mythology, son  of Apollo and Creusa; brother of Janus; mar -  ried to Helice; father of Aegicores, Argades,  Gelem, and Hoples. Ion was abandoned by his  mother but was rescued by Apollo and sent to  Delphi. He became the ancestor of the Ionians.  Ion was killed in the Trojan War. Euripides’   Ion  deals with his myth.  See also:   apollo; delphi; janus  Iouskeha   and   Tawiscaron   (Yoskeha   and  Tawiscara)   In North American Indian myth-  ology   (Iroquois),   twin   gods,   one   good,   the  500   Inéz de Castro, Doña

=== 페이지 518 ===
other evil. The unborn twins began to quar -  rel in their mother’s womb. After his birth,  Tawiscaron killed his mother. But the god -  dess Ataensic, their grandmother, believed that  Iouskeha was evil and Tawiscaron good. The  two brothers were constantly in conflict with  each other. Iouskeha created fruit trees and  pleasant bushes and placed the sun and moon  in their sphere of heaven; Tawiscaron created  thorns and the Rocky Mountains. In the end,  Iouskeha   succeeded   in   imprisoning   his   evil  brother underground.  See also:   ataensic; gluskap and malsum  Iphicles   (famous might)   In Greek mytholo -  gy, twin brother of Heracles, son of Amphitryon  and Alcmena. When the two babies were in the  cradle, Hera, ever hateful toward Heracles,  sent two large snakes to destroy them, but  Heracles, only a year old, squeezed the snakes  to death. This story is cited in some accounts  as evidence that Heracles was fathered by Zeus  and Iphicles by Amphitryon. Iphicles was the  father of Iolaus, who helped Heracles conquer  the Lernean Hydra by cauterizing the place  where the head had been cut off.  See   also:   amphitryon; hera; heracles;  hydra; zeus  Iphigenia   (mothering   a   strong   race)   In  Greek mythology, daughter of Agamemnon and  Clytemnestra; sister of Electra, Chromythemis,  and Orestes. When Agamemnon’s ships were  stilled at Aulis on their way to the Trojan  War, the king sacrificed Iphigenia to placate  the virgin goddess Artemis after Agamemnon  had   killed   one   of   her   stags.   Knowing   that  Clytemnestra would never agree to the sacri -  fice, Agamemnon sent for Iphigenia under the  pretext that she was to marry Achilles. In some  accounts the sacrifice of Iphigenia was carried  out to completion, and she died. Other ancient  accounts say that while the sacrifice was being  prepared, Artemis swept up Iphigenia and took  her off to Tauris, where she became the god -  dess’s priestess. Anyone who was shipwrecked  on the island of Tauris was sacrificed to Artemis.  Iphigenia’s brother Orestes, in search of the  sacred   image   of   Artemis,   was   shipwrecked  on the island. After discovering his identify,  Iphigenia fled with him, taking the image of  Artemis. In Homer’s   Iliad   Iphigenia is called  Chrysothemis. Aeschylus’s   Agamemnon   follows  the myth that says she was sacrificed, whereas  Euripides’   Iphigenia in Aulis   and   Iphigenia in  Tauris   follow the story that says she was saved.  Gluck’s operas   Iphigénie en Aulide   and   Iphigénie  en Tauride   are based on Euripides’ version.  Racine’s   Iphigénie   and Goethe’s   Iphigenie auf  Tauris   also tell the myth.  See also:   agamemnon; artemis; electra;  iliad, the ; orestes  Iphimedia   (Iphimedeia)   (strength   of   the  genitals)   In Greek mythology, a daughter of  Tropias, married to the giant Aloeus. Iphimedia  fled from Aloeus and had two sons, Otus and  Ephialtes,   by   Poseidon.   Iphimedia   is   men -  tioned in Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11).  See also:   odyssey, the ; poseidon  Iphis   (strength)   In   Greek   and   Roman  mythology, daughter of Telethusa of Crete and  Ligdus. Iphis was raised secretly as a boy by her  mother because her father, Ligdus, wanted only  male children and would have killed her had he  known she was a girl. When Ianthe, a young  girl, fell in love with Iphis, the goddess Isis  changed Iphis into a man. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 9) records the myth.  See also:   ovid  Iris   (rainbow)   In   Greek   mythology,   god -  dess   of   the   rainbow   and   messenger   of   the  gods; daughter of the sea deities Thaumas and  Electra. Homer’s   Iliad   (books 3, 5, 8) makes her  the messenger of Zeus, though in much later  mythology she appears as an aide to Hera, wife  of Zeus. One of her functions was to cut the  thread of life that detained the soul in the body  when it was dying. Iris appears in Hesiod’s  Theogony,   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 1 et seq.),  Iris   50 

=== 페이지 519 ===
and Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 4). In English poetry  she is cited in Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book  2.244) to describe the vestment of the archan -  gel Michael with its airy color, like the rainbow.  In Greek art she is portrayed as a young woman  with wings carrying a messenger’s wand, also  used by Hermes. There are two statues of Iris  among the Elgin Marbles. Iris survives as the  English word for the colored portion of the  eye, as well as the name of a family of flow -  ers, including the gladiolus and crocus, which  in   Christian   symbolism   is   often   substituted  for the lily in paintings portraying the Virgin  Mary.  See also:   electra; elgin marbles; hera;  hesiod;   iliad, the ; zeus  Iron Crown of Lombardy   In medieval  history and legend, crown of Agilulph, king  of Lombardy in 591, said to have been given  by   Pope   Gregory   the   Great.   Charlemagne  was   crowned   with   it.   It   is   called   the   Iron  Crown because the inner fillet of iron is said  to have been beaten out of a nail from the true  cross of Christ, which was given to Emperor  Constantine by his mother, St. Helena. The  outer circlet is of beaten gold and set with  precious stones. In 1805 Napoleon placed the  crown on his head with his own hands.  See   also:   charlemagne;   constantine;  gregory the great; helena, st.  Irra   (Dibbara,   Girra,   Iea,   Ura)   In   Near  Eastern mythology (Babylonian-Assyrian), god  of pestilence, the fearful slaughterer who laid  waste the plains, taking delight in destroying  both land and humankind.  One poetic myth narrates how Irra deter -  mined to destroy Babylon. Ishum, the fire god,  is told by Irra:  In the city whither I send thee,  Thou shalt fear no one, nor have  compassion.  Kill the young and old alike,  The tender suckling likewise—spare no  one.  The treasures of Babylon carry off as  booty.  After much discussion, Ishum makes Irra  settle for some song of praise in the god’s  honor. Wherever a tablet with the song or  incantation was hung or set up, that house  would be free from the onslaughts of the god.  The text ends:  He who glorifies my name will rule the  world.  Who proclaims the glory of my power  Will be without a rival.  The singer who sings of my deeds will  not die through pestilence.—.  Let the inhabitants of all places learn to  glorify my name.  Iruwa   In   African   mythology   (Chaga   of  Kenya),   sun   god   who   forgave   a   man   who  attempted to murder him. Once a man decided  to destroy the sun for killing his two sons.  When the plot was discovered, Iruwa not only  forgave the man but gave him more sons and  even wealth.  Isaac   (laughter)   In the Bible, O.T., son of  Abraham and Sarah, promised heir of Abraham,  half brother of Ishmael, married to Rebekah,  father of Jacob and Esau.  Iris Conducting Aphrodite to Ares  (John Flaxman)  502   Iron Crown of Lombardy

=== 페이지 520 ===
The main events of Isaac’s life are told in  Genesis. The book tells how Abraham was  visited by three men (angels) who predicted  the birth of a child to the aged couple, Abra -  ham and Sarah. When Sarah heard this, she  laughed.  When Yahweh, the Hebrew god, wished  to test Abraham’s faith, he ordered him to  sacrifice his beloved son Isaac. However, see -  ing that Abraham was willing to kill his son,  Yahweh intervened and stopped the sacrifice.  Later Abraham sent a servant to find a wife for  Isaac. The first girl who offered the servant  water at a well was to be Isaac’s wife. It was  the daughter of Laban, Rebekah, by whom  Isaac had two sons, Esau and Jacob. By a trick  Rebekah secured Isaac’s deathbed blessing and  right of succession for her favorite, Jacob, by  covering his arms and neck with goatskin to  impersonate his hairy brother Esau. When  Isaac discovered he had been tricked, he could  not give Esau back his inheritance, for once  a blessing was given it could not be recalled.  But Isaac prevented strife between the two  brothers, who later buried him in a cave when  he died at the age of 108. In Islamic mythol -  ogy Isaac is called Ishaq. He is mentioned  in the Koran (sura 21). Isaac usually appears  Abraham Sacrifices Isaac   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Isaac   503

=== 페이지 521 ===
along with his father, Abraham, in many works  titled   The Sacrifice of Isaac.   The scene appears  on the Florence Baptistery doors by Lorenzo  Ghiberti.  See also:   abraham; esau; ishmael; jacob;  rebekah; sarah  Isaiah   (Yahweh   is   salvation)   In   the   Bible,  O.T., one of the Major Prophets, also title of  an Old Testament book. Isaiah lived in Judah  in the latter part of the eighth century   b.c.e.  and is believed to have been descended from  a royal family. The Book of Isaiah is now con -  sidered to be only partly his work: chapters 1  to 39 by Isaiah, chapters 40 to 50 by another  hand (referred to as Second Isaiah), and chap -  ters 56 to 66 by a third and unknown author. Isaac  Isaiah   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  504   Isaiah

=== 페이지 522 ===
In the New Testament Jesus often quotes from  the Book of Isaiah, citing passages believed  to refer to the Messiah. Later Jewish legend,  not recorded in the Bible, says that in his old  age Isaiah was “sawn asunder in the trunk of a  carob tree by order of King Manasseh.”  In Christian art Isaiah is often depicted with  a scroll inscribed with the Latin words   Ecce  virgo concipiet et parium filium   (Behold a virgin  shall conceive and bear a son) (Is. 7:15), which  is a mistranslation of the Hebrew original. The  word   virgin   is not used in the Hebrew, but  young woman.  In Islamic legend the name given to Isaiah  is Sha’ya. He is not mentioned in the Koran,  though Islamic as well as Jewish and Christian  legend says he was murdered.  See also:   manasseh  Ishana Ten   In Japanese Buddhist mythol -  ogy, god derived from the Hindu god Shiva,  portrayed as a fierce figure with three eyes,  holding in his right hand a trident and in  his   left   a   shallow   vessel   containing   clotted  blood. He is one of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese  Buddhist gods and goddesses adopted from  Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o; shiva  Ishmael   (may God hear)   In the Bible, O.T.,  son   of   Abraham   and   his   concubine   Hagar;  half brother to Isaac. Ishamel was cast out of  Abraham’s house; he married and settled at  Paran. The Arabs are said to be descended  from his 12 sons. His name has come to mean  any outcast and was used by Herman Melville  in   Moby-Dick   as the name of the narrator. His  classic opening line reads simply: “Call me  Ishmael.”  See also:   abraham  Ishtar   (Istar)   In   Near   Eastern   mythology,  Semitic mother-goddess, in part derived from  the Sumerian mother-goddess, Inanna.  Ishtar was both a beneficent goddess, the  mother of humankind, and a demonic deity, a  warrior goddess “clad in terror,” who caused  even the gods to tremble. Ishtar thus combined  in her person and worship nearly all of the  attributes, both good and evil, of many Near  Eastern goddesses. As the great mother of the  gods and the mother of men, she grieved over  people’s sorrows, being called in one hymn “she  who loveth all men” and in another addressed  as the goddess who “lookest mercifully upon a  sinner.” In this beneficent role Ishtar bestowed  life, health, and prosperity with her “life-giv -  ing glance.” She was the giver of vegetation  and the creator of animals, wedlock, maternity,  and all earthly blessings and moral laws for  humankind.  But alongside her beneficent role Ishtar was  also a demonic goddess. She was the warrior  goddess. Part of a votive tablet placed for Ham -  murabi, the great ruler, reads: “Ishtar has given  thee conflict and battle; what more can’st thou  hope?” Ishtar was also a storm goddess, “the  lofty one who causes the heavens to tremble,  the earth to quake .   .   . who casts down the  mountains like dead bodies.”  Because Ishtar combined so many attributes  of other goddesses, the myths surrounding her  are often in conflict. In one account, for exam -  ple, she is said to be the daughter of the moon  god, Sin, and sister of the sun god, Shamash. In  another account she is the daughter of Anu, the  lord of heaven. Both accounts agree, however,  that she is connected with the planet Venus.  She is called “lady of resplendent light” in that  role and is symbolized by an eight-pointed star,  a symbol later associated with the Virgin Mary  in Christianity.  Ishtar’s most important role, however, was  as goddess of sexual love. In this aspect she  displayed an extremely despotic attitude. In the  Babylonian epic poem   Gilgamesh,   for example,  she is at first in love with the shepherd Tam -  muz, then with a bird, then a lion, then a horse,  then a shepherd, then a gardener, and finally  with Gilgamesh, the hero king. Gilgamesh,  however, rejects Ishtar because she had killed  so many of her lovers, which the hero enumer -  ates to the goddess, the prime example being  her husband, Tammuz. Their cruel sexual rela -  Ishtar   505

=== 페이지 523 ===
tionship is vividly described in another poem,  Ishtar’s Descent into the Underworld.   The poem is  known in many different versions in Near East -  ern literature, and the name of the goddess is  often changed. In one text the name is Inanna.  According to the poem, Ishtar once looked  down from her home in heaven to the deep pit  of the underworld. She decided she wanted to  go down, but she told her minister, Ninshubar,  that after she was gone he was to “beat a drum  in the holy shrine” for her sake, telling the gods  Enlil, Nanna, Eridu, and Enki that she was in  the underworld.  Ishtar then went down and arrived at the  gate of the underworld. Its chief keeper, Neti,  asked her what she wanted. She lied, telling him  she had come for the burial rites of Gugalanna,  husband of Ereshkigal, the queen of the under -  world. Ereshkigal was also the sister of Ishtar.  Neti then went to Ereshkigal and told her that  her sister Ishtar was at the gates and wished to  enter. Ereshkigal told Neti that he was to let  Ishtar in but to be certain that when each of the  seven doors of the underworld was unlocked  Ishtar followed the rite connected with passage  through the gate. Ishtar then went from door  to door. At each door she was divested of some  symbol of her power—her Shugurra, her royal  rod, her necklace, two stones that lay on her  breast, her golden ring, her pectoral gems, and  finally the robe of sovereignty that covered her  body.  At the last door Ishtar dropped naked on  her knees before her sister, Ereshkigal. The  queen, in conjunction with seven judges, pro -  nounced the sentence that Ishtar was to die.  Immediately, the goddess died, and her corpse  was   hung   on   a   pike.   Three   nights   passed.  Ninshubar, her faithful follower, then did as  the goddess Ishtar had earlier instructed him.  He called on the gods for help, but only Enki  responded. (In the poem Enki is called Ishtar’s  father.) He formed two beings, the Kurgarru  and the Kalaturru, giving the first the food  of life and second the water of life. The two  descended   to   hell   asking   for   Ishtar’s   body.  When they found it, they sprinkled the food  and the water on the body, restoring it to life.  But   one   problem   remained—another   dead  body had to be substituted for the restored one  of Ishtar. The cruel goddess offered her youth -  ful husband Tammuz, who was then grabbed  by seven demons, killed, and taken to hell,  where his body replaced that of the resurrected  goddess.  A variant poetic version of   Ishtar’s Descent  into the Underworld   was used by the French  composer Vincent d’Indy for his   Istar,   a set of  symphonic variations for orchestra. Instead of  the main theme coming first, it appears only  at the end to indicate the complete nakedness  of the goddess before the last gate. In d’Indy’s  text Ishtar descends to the underworld to find  her husband Tammuz. She brings him back to  earth because the land is barren without him  (he was the spirit, or god, of vegetation).  Ishtar had numerous temples throughout  the Near East. The chief seat of her worship  was at Erech; others were at Ashur, Babylon,  Nineveh, and Ur. Ishtar was identified with  numerous other Near Eastern goddesses, such  as   Anath,   Anunit,   Aruru,   Ashdar,   Asherah,  Astarte, Ashtoreth, Athtar, Belit, Innimi, Kilili,  Mah, Meni, Nana, Ninharsag, Ninlil, and Nin -  tud. Therefore, her symbols were also many.  Among them were a dove, an ear of wheat, a  forked tree, a lion, a serpent, an ornamented  cone, a pillar, and a tree stem. Sometimes she  was portrayed as a woman nursing a child,  similar to Egyptian works showing Isis nursing  Horus or Christian portrayals of the Virgin  Mary nursing the child Jesus.  See   also:   anu;   anath;   aruru;   astarte;  ereshkiga;   horus;   inanna;   shamash;   sin;  tammuz  Ishvara   (supreme soul)   In Buddhism, title  of the Hindu god Shiva meaning independent  existence and used for a transcendent or extra -  mundane god, a personal deity. The Buddha  rejected this concept. He said: “If Ishvara be  the maker, all living things should have silently  506   Ishvara

=== 페이지 524 ===
to submit to their maker’s power. They would  be like vessels formed by the potter’s hand;  and if it were so, how would it be possible to  practice virtue? If the world had been made  by Ishvara there should be no such thing as  sorrow, or calamity, or sin; for both pure and  impure deeds must come from him. If not,  there would be another cause beside him, and  he would not be the self-existent one. Thus,  you see, the thought of Ishvara is overthrown.”  Buddhism teaches the interdependence of all  things as at once the causes and effects of  everything and does not require an uncaused  cause to make the universe.  See also:   buddha, the; shiva  Isidore of Seville, St.   (gift of Isis)   (seventh  century)   In   Christian   legend,   bishop   of  Seville, Doctor of the Church. Feast, 4 April.  The brother of St. Leander, who preceded  him in his bishopric, Isadore was noted for his  writings, the most famous being his   Etymolo -  gies,   an encyclopedia of information on every  subject then known to man. The saint based his  work on previous books and did not verify any  of the facts or stories. His support of the anti-  Semitic canons enacted in Spain against the  Jews who did not accept Christianity greatly  diminished his reputation.  Numerous miracles are recorded about the  saint: Once a man wanted to steal a relic of St.  Isidore and hid in the church where the saint  was buried. When all was quiet, he broke open  the shrine and cut off one of Isidore’s fingers.  No sooner had he done this than he was turned  to stone. He thought it best to return the fin -  ger, which, when he could move again, he did,  thanking the saint for his mercy in not killing  him.  Murillo’s painting of St. Isidore and St.  Leander portrays each enthroned and robed in  white, wearing their bishops’ miters.  Isidore the Ploughman, St.   (gift of Isis)  (12th century)   In Christian legend, patron  saint of Madrid, Spain. Isidore was a poor  workman who could neither read nor write.  One day his master, Juan de Vargas, went into  the fields to see if Isidore was working or, as  he had heard from other servants, praying. As  Vargas came near the field, he saw two angels  guiding the plow while Isidore knelt in prayer.  Another legend tells how when Vargas was  thirsty Isidore struck a rock with his goad and  pure water flowed out. The saint is portrayed  dressed as a workman, sometimes with a spade  in his hand.  Isis   (throne goddess)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, the Greek form of the Egyptian name  Ast or Eset, the sister-wife of Osiris and the  mother   of   Horus;   a   great   mother   goddess.  Isis was part of the fourth generation of the  Ennead of Heliopolis and became more widely  worshipped   than   any   other   Egyptian   deity.  Like other creator deities, she was able to pro -  duce life without a partner. She stimulated the  inertness of Osiris and took his seed into her  body to conceive their child. Often Isis and the  goddess Hathor are commingled because both  were great mother goddesses. This merging  of religious and cultic beliefs and practices is  called syncretism. The term was used by the  Greek writer Plutarch for the union of Greek,  Isis  Isis   50 

=== 페이지 525 ===
Roman, and Egyptian cultic deities and beliefs  during his day.  Numerous passages in the ancient Pyramid  Texts state that Osiris, Isis, Set, and Nephthys  were deified members of a family of human  beings   Plutarch,   in   his   short   book   Isis   and  Osiris,   writes that when Set killed his brother  Osiris and threw his coffin into a river, Isis  found the coffin and hid it, but Set discovered  the hiding place, cut up Osiris’s body, and scat -  tered the pieces throughout Egypt. Isis recov -  ered the dismembered parts, and with the help  of the god Thoth restored her brother-hus -  band and had intercourse with him, conceiving  a child who was called Horus. The Book of the  Dead has many allusions to Isis’s loving care of  Osiris, but it says little of her devotion to her  son Horus, whom she reared so that he would  become the avenger of his father.  The Metternich Stele (found in Alexan -  deria in 1828 and given to Prince Metternich  by Mohammed Ali) tells how the goddess in  her wanderings and sorrows cried out, “I, even  I, am Isis, and I came forth from the house  wherein my brother Set has placed me.” For  Set was not content with murdering his brother  Osiris but took further vengeance by shutting  Isis up in a prison. While she was confined  there, Thoth, the prince of law in both heaven  and earth, came to her and gave her advice that  would protect her unborn son. With Thoth’s  help she escaped and later exclaimed, “I came  forth from the house at eventide, and there also  came forth with me my seven scorpions, who  were to accompany me, and to be my helpers.  Two scorpions, Tefen and Befen, were behind  me, two scorpions, Mestet and Mestetef, were  by my side, and three scorpions, Petet, Thetet  and Maatet, showed me the way.”  The seven scorpion goddesses led Isis to a  village near the papyrus swamps. Isis sought  shelter from a rich woman, who closed the  door in her face (just as Joseph and Mary were  not   given   shelter   in   the   Christian   legend).  Enraged at the treatment Isis received from the  woman, one of the scorpion goddesses, Tefen,  made her way under the door of the woman’s  house, stung her child to death, and set the  house afire. Isis, taking pity on the woman’s  grief for her child, restored him to life, and a  flood of rain extinguished the fire. Meanwhile  a peasant woman invited Isis to her house, and  the goddess stayed there, while the woman who  had rejected Isis suffered agonies of remorse.  Soon   after,   Isis   brought   forth   her   child  Horus   on   a   bed   of   papyrus   plants   in   the  swamps. She hid the boy carefully, fearing that  he might by stung by some venomous reptile.  One day she set out for the city of Am to obtain  provisions for her son. When she returned, she  found him lying dead, foam on his lips, the  ground around him soaked with tears from his  eyes. In a moment she realized that Set, in the  form of a scorpion, had killed Horus. Her cries  brought out the neighbors, but none could help  her. Nephthys, her sister, came to her aid, tell -  ing her to appeal to the sun god Ra. She cried  to the god, and the sun stood still in heaven.  Thoth (a form of Ra in the myth) descended  to earth to comfort Isis, repeating to her a spell  that would restore Horus to life.  Isis learned the magic words, and when  she uttered them, the poison flowed from her  son’s body, air entered his lungs, sense and  feeling returned to him, and he was restored  to life. Thoth ascended to heaven, and the sun  resumed his course amid great rejoicing.  When Horus grew up, he fought against  Set in a battle that lasted three days and three  nights. Horus had gained the advantage when  Isis, who was also Set’s sister, took pity on her  brother and allowed him to escape. Horus,  filled with anger at his mother, avenged himself  by cutting off her head. However, Thoth inter -  vened and transformed the severed head into  the head of a cow and attached it to Isis.  It is evident from a number of passages in  various Egyptian texts that Isis possessed great  skill in magic. In the   Hymn to Osiris,   Isis’s use  of magic words helps restore Osiris to life, and  in The Book of the Dead one entire chapter  is devoted to the purpose of bestowing on the  50    Isis

=== 페이지 526 ===
deceased some of the magical powers of the  goddess.  Isis was worshipped throughout Egypt. She  had numerous titles, such as “the divine one,”  “the greatest of all the gods and goddesses,”  “the queen of all gods,” “the female Ra,” “the  female Horus,” “the lady of the new year,” “the  maker of sunrise,” “the lady of heaven,” and  “the light giver of heaven.” Worship of Isis  spread beyond Egypt. From various classical  writers we find that she was revered in several  places in western Europe, being identified with  Persephone, Tethys, and Athene, just as her  husband, Osiris, was identified with Hades,  Dionysus, and other foreign gods. In her chief  temple in Rome the goddess was called Isis  Campensis. Apuleius in   The Golden Ass   gives a  description of a festival of Isis that was held in  Rome in the latter half of the second century  c.e.   The writer calls the goddess   regina coeli,   or  “queen of heaven” (a title later used for the Vir -  gin Mary) and identifies her with Ceres, Venus,  and Persephone. The holiest of all her sanc -  tuaries known to the Greeks was at Tithorea.  Pausanias, in his   Description of Greece   (chapter  32), writes that a festival was held there in her  honor twice a year, in spring and autumn.  Isis   was   also   identified   with   many   local  Syrian   goddesses,   and   the   early   Christians  bestowed some of her attributes on the Virgin  Mary. Several of the incidents of the wander -  ings of Mary with the Christ Child in Egypt  as recorded in the apocryphal Gospels reflect  scenes in the life of Isis as described in the texts  found on the Metternich Stele.  Isis is usually portrayed wearing the vulture  headdress and holding a papyrus scepter in one  hand and the ankh, the symbol of life, in the  other. Her most famous symbol is the   thet,   the  knot or buckle of Isis, which is indicative of  her power to bind and also serves as a symbol  of blood and life. Sometimes Isis is portrayed  suckling her infant son Horus.  Among the many epithets of the goddess are  Khut, as light giver; Usert, as earth goddess;  Thenenet, as great goddess of Duat, the under -  world; Satis, who spread the life-giving waters  of the Nile flood; Anukis, as the embracer of  the land and the producer of fertility by her  waters; Ankhet, as the producer and giver of  life; Kekhet, as the goddess of cultivated land  and fields; Renenet, as the goddess of the har -  vest; Tcheft, as the goddess of food that was  offered to the gods; and Ament (hidden god -  dess), as the great lady of the underworld who  assisted in restoring the bodies of the blessed  dead to live in the kingdom of Osiris, the lord  of the dead.  See also:   ankh; book of the dead ,   the;  duat; ennead; great mother; hathor; horus;  nephthys;   osiris;   pyramid   texts;   ra;   set;  thoth  Israel   (God fights, God rules?)   In the Bible,  O.T., name given to Jacob after he had wrestled  with the angel (Gen. 32:28) and again by God  at Bethel (Gen. 35:10). Israel is also the name  given to the region inhabited by the Twelve  Tribes fathered by Jacob.  See also:   jacob  Israfel   (serafim, the burning one)   Angel of  music in Islamic mythology who will announce  the   Last   Judgment,   the   end   of   the   world.  Although Israfel is not named directly in the  Koran, he appears in Islamic tradition. He is  said to be the archangel who for three years  was the companion of Muhammad and trained  him for his role as the prophet. Gabriel, who is  called Jiburili in Islam, then took over the task  and dictated the Koran to the prophet from the  perfect copy in heaven.  Alexander the Great, an important figure in  Islamic legend, met Israfel before arriving in  the Land of Darkness. There the angel stood  on a hill and blew his trumpet. His trumpet  will announce the Day of Resurrection, when  he will stand upon the Holy Rock in Jerusalem  and give the signal that will bring the dead back  to life.  Edgar Allan Poe, fascinated by the sound  of the angel’s name and his function in Islamic  Israfel   50 

=== 페이지 527 ===
mythology, wrote a poem called “Israfel.” In  its preface Poe quotes: “And the angel Israfel,  whose heart-strings are a lute, and who has the  sweetest voice of all God’s creatures.—Koran.”  Apparently Poe confused a footnote in the  Koran with text, as Israfel is not mentioned in  the holy book.  In Egypt today it is believed that Israfel’s  music will refresh the inhabitants of paradise,  as he does in Poe’s poem, which inspired the  title of Harvey Allen’s biography of the poet  and Edwin Markham’s poem in Poe’s honor,  Our Israfel.  See   also:   angel;   archangel;   gabriel;  muhammad  Istvan   In this Hungarian folktale, reminis -  cent of the Russian story of Ivan the Dragon  Killer, two brothers must slay two seven-headed  dragons. The older brother, Janos, is cheerful,  generous, and kind, while his brother Istvan is  lazy, selfish, and bad-tempered. The dragons  have unfortunately also turned the princess of  the kingdom into a dragon. The king promises  that whoever can release the princess from the  dragons will receive his daughter in marriage  and half of his kingdom as her dowry. Istvan’s  father hears of the proclamation and sends him  off to see if he can liberate the princess. Along  the way he sits down to eat and is bothered  by an army of ants. He kicks the anthill and  destroys it before he continues down to the  shore of a lake. Here 12 ducklings are playing  and swimming among the reeds, and Istvan  chases them away by throwing pebbles at them.  He knocks on the door of the palace, and an old  woman comes and asks him what he wants. He  tells her that he has come to free the princess.  The old woman said that Istvan will have to  pass three tests, the first of which is to pick up  a bowl of millet that the old woman quickly  throws on the ground. Before he can do any -  thing, an army of ants comes and eats all of the  millet. After spending the night in the forest,  Istvan returns the next day and again knocks  on the door of the palace. The old woman once  again prepares a test for him by throwing 12  golden keys into a lake and tells Istvan that he  has to dive down and bring all of them back.  This he cannot do no matter how hard he tries.  He spends yet another night in the forest, but  he then returns to the palace and asks to be  given the third test. The old woman is unhappy  but agrees and takes Istvan to a chamber in the  palace. When she opens the door, there are  three dragons inside. From these Istvan has to  pick which one is the princess, but he fails to  do so. Just then a giant comes into the room  and picks up Istvan, takes him outside, and  throws him on the ground, which opens up  and swallows him. The father waits for news  from his son, but when none comes, he sends  the older son, Janos, to find him. Along the  way he, too, sits down to eat and is bothered  by an army of ants. For them, he spreads some  crumbs on the ground and then makes his way  down to the lake, where the ducklings are play -  ing in the reeds. They receive a loaf of bread  broken up into pieces before Janos goes on to  the palace. The old woman then gives him the  same tests that she has given Istvan. The millet  strewn on the ground is picked up by the ants;  when the golden keys are thrown into the lake  before Janos can even take off his shirt, the 12  ducklings appear with the golden keys in their  beaks. When he knocks again, the old woman  has disappeared, and a beautiful young maiden  welcomes him into the palace. She has been  under a spell, but Janos has broken it by being  kind to the ants and the ducklings, and now  she tells him how to distinguish the princess  from the other two dragons. She also gives him  a sword to slay them with and a pin-encrusted  suit, which he is to don immediately after slay -  ing the dragons, and to stamp his foot three  times. She tells him that the giant will then  appear, and Janos must let the giant do as he  pleases if he wants to rescue his brother Istvan.  Janos thanks her, and she quickly disappears.  In the king’s hall, where the dragons are, he  identifies the princess and cuts off the heads of  the two other dragons. Thereupon the princess  5  0   Istvan

=== 페이지 528 ===
is released from her enchantment and again  takes human form. Janos then puts on the pin-  encrusted suit and stamps his foot three times  to call the giant. The giant appears and puts  Janos in his mouth, but he cannot swallow him  or spit him out because of the pins. Janos says  he will jump out of the giant’s mouth on three  conditions. First, he has to free Istvan, which  happens. Second, the giant has to promise to  leave the kingdom and never return, which  he   also   promises.   The   third   request   is   for  two large beams of wood, which Janos uses to  wedge into the mouth of the giant so that he  can never again close his mouth. When this  happens, Janos springs down from the giant,  who runs away and is never heard from again.  The king then happily gives his daughter to  Janos as his bride and soon gives his new son-  in-law half of his kingdom and, later, all of it.  Istvan also learns from his ordeal and becomes  the most pleasant man anyone can ever hope  to meet.  Italapas   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Chinook), the name given Coyote, who  appears in much Indian mythology. Italapas  aided Ikanam, the creator, in forming mankind  as well as teaching them the arts. He made  the first prairie by pushing the sea back. He  elaborated various taboos regarding hunting.  His character is different from that of other  coyotes in that he is not a mischievous being.  In the accounts of the Indians of California,  for example, Coyote always attempts to thwart  creation.  See also:   coyote  Itzamná   (Yzamana,   Zamana)   In   Mayan  mythology,   culture   hero   and   sky   god   who  taught the Indians how to grow corn. He was  the son of Hunabhú. Itzamná’s most frequent  title was Kin-ich-ahau (lord of the sun’s face  or lord, the eye of day) in his role as the sun’s  disk. At Itzamal there was a temple dedicated to  Itzamná as Kinich-kak-mo (the eye of the day,  the bird of fire), which people came to in times  of pestilence. An offering was placed on the  altar at noon and consumed by fire. A temple  at Campeche, dedicated to him as Kin-ich-  ahau-haban (lord of the sun’s face, the hunter),  had blood sacrifices; at another temple he was  worshipped as Kabil (he of the lucky hand) for  cures. In Mayan art Itzamná is portrayed as an  old man with toothless jaws and sunken cheeks.  He was revered by the priesthood as the patron  of writing and learning. Paul Schellhas, when  classifying the gods of some Mayan codices,  gave Itzamná the letter   D,   and the god is some -  times referred to as God D.  See also:   hunabhú  Ivaldi   (the   mighty)   In   Norse   mythology,  father of the craftsmen dwarfs or elves who  constructed   the   ship   Skithblathnir;   Odin’s  spear, Gungnir; and the golden hair for Thor’s  wife, Sif, which had been cut off by the fire-  trickster god, Loki, and had to be replaced.  See also:   alfheim; sif  Ivan Savelevich and the   Rusalka   In Slavic  folklore, the   rusalka   is a female water spirit  who lives part of the year in water and part in  the forest. Ivan Savelevich is a seal hunter from  the northern city of Arkhangelsk. Once while  hunting, he becomes stranded near a glacier  above the Arctic Circle. Because he is unable to  return home, he is forced to spend the winter  on the island of Novaya Zemlya. The nights  are long and lonely, but he plays his balalaika  in the evening by a blazing hearth and a small  lamp. On one such evening, he dozes off but  is awakened by strange sounds like dancing  feet from somewhere in the room. How could  someone have come without his knowing it,  and is it perhaps an evil demon? Every time he  plays his instrument he hears the footsteps, but  he is never able to see who is dancing. Then  he set a trap, lighting four candles and hiding  them behind a dark curtain. When he begins  to play and hears the dancing steps, he quickly  opens the curtain and finds a beautiful young  maiden there. She tells him that she is a   rusalka  Ivan Savelevich and the Rusalka   5 

=== 페이지 529 ===
and begins to tell him of her life. As a young  maiden in Nizhnii Novgorod, because of a  jealous witch, she pined away and died. Her  parents mourned her death and prayed to the  goddess Mokos to bring her back. After many  years, the goddess allowed her to live on land  for short periods, but this can only take place if  she is in the company of one person. Fascinated  with the possibility of having someone, she asks  the seal hunter to marry her. He is captivated  with her beauty and quickly agrees. They live  in his little cottage in the north, and she makes  his home and his life happier than ever. At the  end of winter Ivan Savelevich wants to return  to Arkhangelsk to sell his hides and to be back  with his family and friends, but the   rusalka  warns him that she will not be able to accompa -  ny him. He decides to go anyway, and she tells  him that if he ever wants to be with her again,  and live in a wonderful palace at the bottom of  the sea, he should come to Nizhnii Novgorod  and go into the forest along the banks of the  great Volga River. A small stream flows into  the larger river and right at that point there is  a deep pool. At high noon or at midnight she  comes to that spot, and if he wants to see her,  he should simply dive down into the water, and  there he will find her. So Ivan goes but fearing  that it may be a horrible trap. When he picks  up his balalaika and begins to play, he sees the  rhythmical movement of the water and knows  that   his   rusalka   is   down   below   waiting   for  him. He dives in and descends to the river bed  where he finds his bride, who embraces him.  He longs to be with people on dry land, but  this is no longer possible, for he has succumbed  to the call of the water spirit and is forever a  prisoner of her love.  See   also:   leshy; lorlei; mokos; sirens;  undine  Ivan the Terrible   (Russian: Ivan Groznyi)  (1530–1584)   In Russian legend, Ivan IV, czar  of Muscovy, noted for his extreme cruelty. He  was the first ruler to call himself czar, Russian  for Caesar.  In 1564, after the treason of one of his coun -  selors, Ivan organized a personal bodyguard  called the Oprichnik, who acted in a manner  similar   to   the   Nazi   Gestapo.   They   terror -  ized the countryside and executed “offenders”  against the czar. Ivan’s evil reputation made an  impact on Russian legend, poetry, and music.  In   one   bylina,   or   heroic   song,   the   czar  resolves to kill his son because of an alleged  conspiracy. The son is to be executed, but his  mother and uncle intervene. The uncle seeks  out the conspirator and kills him. Even though  the son survives in the   bylina,   he was in fact  killed by his father in 1581.  Rimsky-Korsakov’s opera   Ivan the Terrible,  sometimes   called   The   Maid   of   Pskov,   deals  with a romantic legend of Ivan’s secret daugh -  ter,   Olga,   and   her   lover,   Tutcha,   who   are  killed   when   defending   Pskov   against   Ivan’s  lust. Tchaikovsky’s opera   The Oprichnik   also  has a romantic plot. Anton Rubinstein’s opera  The Merchant of Kalashnikov   uses Lermontov’s  poem   A Song About Tsar Ivan Vasilyevich, the  Young Opricknik, and the Merchant Kalashnikov  as the basis for the libretto. Sergei Eisenstein’s  film   Ivan the Terrible,   in two parts, has music by  Serge Prokofiev.  Iwa   In Polynesian mythology, Hawaiian trick -  ster and master thief, who stole while he was in  his mother’s womb. Once he had a contest with  other thieves to see who could completely fill  up a house with stolen goods in one night. Iwa  waited until the thieves had fallen asleep, then  he stole all of the goods from their houses and  placed them in his house. Possessing a magic  paddle, Iwa was capable of rowing from one  end of the Hawaiian islands to the other in four  strokes.  See also:   trickster  Ixchel   In Mayan mythology, water goddess  who presided over floods, the rainbow, preg -  nancy, and weaving; believed by some scholars  to be the goddess of the moon. Ixchel is a  demonic goddess, the personification of the  5  2   Ivan the Terrible

=== 페이지 530 ===
destructive nature of water. In one Mayan art -  work she is portrayed as an angry old woman  destroying the world by flood. Although she is  generally demonic, she is married to Itzamná  and is thus regarded as the mother of the  Mayan pantheon. In Mayan art she is usually  portrayed surrounded by the symbols of death  and destruction, with a serpent on her head and  crossbones on her dress. When classifying the  gods in some Mayan codices, Paul Schellhas  gave Ixchel the letter   I,   and she is sometimes  referred to as Goddess I.  See also:   itzamná  Ix-huyne   In Mayan mythology, goddess of  the moon, though sometimes Ixchel, the water  goddess, is given that role.  See also:   ixchel  Ixion   In Greek mythology, the first mur -  derer; king of the Lapiths in Thessaly; son of  Antion and Perimele (or Ares or Phlegyas);  married to Dia; father of Perithous and, by a  cloud, father of the centaurs and Amycus. Ixion  killed his father-in-law and tried to seduce  Hera, the wife of Zeus. Ixion was tricked by  Zeus, who caused a cloud to appear in the form  of Hera. Ixion had sexual intercourse with the  cloud, fathering a race of centaurs. Zeus then  hurled a thunderbolt at Ixion and had Hermes  confine him to the underworld, tied to a fiery  wheel that constantly revolved and was lashed  by serpents. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12)  tells the story. Ovid’s image was passed on to  European medieval tradition, which saw Ixion  as symbolic of lewdness or sensuality, as it  saw Sisyphus as pride and Tantalus as avarice.  Ixion appears in Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Hell),  Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (1.5.35), Pope’s   Rape of  the Lock,   and Robert Browning’s   Ixion,   in which  the English poet has Ixion gain insight through  his suffering.  See also:   ares; centaurs; hera; hermes;  ovid; phlegyas; sisyphus; tantalus; zeus  Ixtab   In Mayan mythology, goddess of sui -  cide. According to Mayan belief, a suicide went  directly to paradise, as opposed to Christian  belief, in which the soul was assigned to hell.  In Mayan art Ixtab is portrayed hanging from  the sky by a halter around her neck. Her eyes  are closed, and signs of decomposition appear  on her body.  Ixtlilton   (Yxtlilton) (the little black one)   In  Aztec mythology, god of medicine, fasting, and  games, whose temple contained jars of water  known as   tlital   (black water), used to heal the  sick, particularly children. Fray Bernardino de  Sahagún, in his   Historia general de las cosas de  Nueva España   (1570–1582), writes that when  a child was cured, the parents would take into  their home a priest who impersonated the god.  At the house a feast was held that “consisted of  dances and songs.” When the priest imperson -  ating the god later left the house, “they gave  him rugs or shawls.”  Izanagi and Izanami   (the male who invites  and   the   female   who   invites)   In   Japanese  mythology, primeval creator god and goddess,  ancestors of many Shinto gods as well as of the  principal islands of Japan.  Their myth is told in the   Kojiki   (records  of ancient matters), written in 712   c.e.   They  appeared on the expanse of high heaven before  the earth had been created and were chosen by  the gods to create the earth.  In   the   beginning   there   was   only   chaos.  From the mire, in the form of a reed, grew Tantalus, Sisyphus, and Ixion  Izanagi and Izanami   5  3

=== 페이지 531 ===
kunitokotatchi,   “eternal   land   ruler,”   and   two  subordinate deities. Izanagi and Izanami were  their descendants. The couple was given a jew -  eled spear, and standing on the Floating Bridge  of Heaven, a rainbow, they pushed down the  spear and pulled up brine. They piled up the  brine and formed the island of Onogoro.  Izanagi and Izanami then came down to the  island of Onogoro but found it deserted. They  were lonely, and after looking intently at one  another, decided to marry.  “How is thy body formed?” Izanagi asked  Izanami.  “My body is completely formed except for  one part that is incomplete,” she replied.  “My body is completely formed, and there  is one part that is superfluous. Suppose that  we supplement that which is incomplete in  thee with that which is superfluous in me, and  thereby procreate lands.”  The two slept together. A child was born,  but without legs, so they cast it adrift in a reed  boat. Their second child was the Island Awa,  but they refused it also. Izanagi and Izanami  then went up to heaven to ask the gods what  the   trouble   was.   They   were   informed   that  when they made love Izanami spoke first, which  was wrong. The man was to speak first. They  again slept together and gave birth to the eight  islands that became Japan. Thus, at a Shinto  wedding ceremony the groom speaks first.  The   couple   continued   producing   islands  and gods until Izanami died giving birth to  the fire god. Then Izanagi descended to the  underworld, the   yomotsu-kuni,   in search of his  wife. He lit a tooth of the comb that held his  hair to illuminate his passage. Finding only the  decaying corpse of his wife, he fled in horror.  Reaching earth again, he hastened to bathe and  purify himself in the river. From every garment  he threw off and from every part of his body,  from his feet to his nose, a fresh god was born,  such as the Sun goddess, the Moon god, and  Susano, the storm god.  See   also:   earth diver;   kojiki ; bifrost;  susano  Iztaccihuatl   (white woman)   In Aztec mythol -  ogy, mountain goddess described by Fray Diego  Durán in his   Book of the Gods and Rites   (c. 1576),  which deals with Aztec mythology, as a young  woman   “wearing   clipped   man’s   hair   on   the  forehead and hanging down to the shoulders on  the sides. Her cheeks were always painted with  color.” Ixtaccihuatl is also the name of a moun -  tain in Mexico some 16,000 feet high, which,  according to some commentators, resembles a  woman lying down in a white shroud.  5  4   Iztaccihuatl

=== 페이지 532 ===
6  5  5  Jack and the Beanstalk   English folktale  popular in the British Isles and the United  States. Jack, a rather simple boy, is sent by his  mother, a widow, to sell their cow. Jack sells  the cow to a butcher for some colored beans.  When he returns home, his mother, angry at  his stupidity, tosses the beans out a window.  The next morning a large beanstalk is seen  to have sprouted. Jack climbs the stalk and  finds a giant’s castle. He hides as he hears the  giant sing, “Fee-fi-fo-fum / I smell the blood  of an Englishman / Be he live or be he dead  / I’ll grind his bones to make my bread.” Jack  sees the giant’s wife prepare a big dinner for  the giant and watches as a little red hen lays a  golden egg. When the giant falls asleep, Jack  steals the hen. The next day he climbs the  stalk again and this time steals bags of gold.  Finally, the third time he steals the giant’s  harp, which cries out for help. The giant  chases Jack down the beanstalk, but Jack cuts  down the stalk and the giant is killed. Jack  and the Beanstalk is incorporated into a story  with other folktale characters in the musical  Into the Woods.  Jacob   (supplanter)   In the Bible, O.T., the  second son of Isaac and Rebekah, twin brother  of Esau. Jacob was later renamed Israel by  Yahweh, the Hebrew god.  Jacob’s story is found in the Book of Gen -  esis (chaps. 25–50). He was an agriculturalist,  and his brother Esau was a hunter. Once when  Esau was out hunting, he returned home very  hungry and asked Jacob for some food. Jacob, a  very wily man, would not give the food unless  Esau sold him his birthright, which Esau did  for “a pottage of lentils” (Gen. 25:34). In order  to claim this birthright Jacob had to obtain a  J  Jack and the Beanstalk   (Arthur Rackham)

=== 페이지 533 ===
blessing from his father. He knew that his father  would give the birthright only to Esau. When  his father was old and blind, Jacob, with the  help of his mother, Rebekah, disguised himself  as Esau by wrapping his arms in goatskin. When  his father touched the goatskin, he took Jacob  to be Esau, because, as Jacob had said, “Esau my  brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man”  (Gen. 27:11). Isaac became suspicious when he  heard Jacob speak. Isaac then said, “The voice  is Jacob’s voice, but the hands are the hands of  Esau” (Gen. 27:22). Nevertheless, he gave his  blessing—and Esau’s birthright—to Jacob. Esau  was so enraged that Jacob fled to his uncle in  Haran. On his way Jacob stopped at night and  lay down to sleep, using stones (fetish figures  of gods) for a pillow. “And he dreamed, and  behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top  of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels  of God ascending and descending on it. And  behold, the Lord [Yahweh] stood above it, and  said, ‘I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father,  and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou  liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed.’   ”  When Jacob awoke, he realized that Yahweh  had been with him, and he took the stones of  his pillow and erected a shrine, pouring oil on it  and calling it Bethel (the house of God).  Jacob Wrestles with the Angel   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  5  6   Jacob

=== 페이지 534 ===
When   Jacob   arrived   at   Haran,   he   met  Laban’s   beautiful   daughter   Rachel   coming  to   water   the   sheep.   Jacob   rolled   away   the  stone from the well, watered the sheep, kissed  Rachel, and told her he was her kinsman. He  then worked for his uncle for seven years to  obtain Rachel, but Laban tricked him and had  his daughter Leah slipped into the marriage  bed instead of Rachel. When Jacob discovered  he had married Leah instead of Rachel, Laban  explained to him that it was not possible to  give away his youngest daughter before the  eldest was married. Jacob then agreed to work  another seven years to obtain Rachel as his  wife. It was Rachel who Jacob loved, but it was  Leah who bore most of his children, as Rachel  was barren until later in life.  After some 20 years, Jacob left with his  wives and children for Hebron, the home of  his father. Laban pursued him but eventually  made   peace. Approaching   Seir,   where   Esau  lived, Jacob sent many gifts ahead, fearful that  his brother would kill him and his family. One  night   Jacob   wrestled   with   and   captured   an  angel, who begged to be released. Jacob con -  sented on condition that the angel give him  a blessing. “And he said, ‘Thy name shall be  called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince  hast thou power with God and with men, and  hast prevailed’   ” (Gen. 32). (Angel is often a  term for Yahweh in the Old Testament.) Jacob’s  most famous son was Joseph. In Islam Jacob is  called Ya’qub.  In 1296 Edward I brought the stone on  which the kings of Scotland were crowned  to Westminster Abbey. British monarchs are  seated on this stone during the coronation  ceremony. The monk claimed that this was the  very stone “pillow” that Jacob rested his head  on when he had the vision of the ladder. Scenes  from his life are frequently found in Western  art. Gerbrandt van den Eeckhout’s   Isaac Blessing  Jacob   is one of the best known.  See also:   esau; isaac; leah; lentil; rebekah;  yahweh  Jagan-Natha   (Lord   of   the   World)   In  Hindu   mythology,   a   form   of   Krishna   and  brother to Balarama. While Krishna is usually  depicted as a handsome youth, Jagan-Natha’s  image   is   repulsively   ugly.   One   myth   that  explains this difference says that Krishna was  killed by a hunter, and his body was left to  rot under a tree. His remains were found, and  the bones were placed in a box. Then Vishnu  directed King Indradyumna to make an image  of Jagan-Natha and to put the bones in it.  Vishvakarman, the architect of the gods, said  that he would make the image, but he must  not be disturbed until it was finished. After  15 days the king could not wait any longer, so  Vishvakarman left the image unfinished, with  no arms or legs.  See also:   juggernaut; kali; krishna; sub -  hadra; vishnu  Jahi   In   Persian   mythology,   demoness   of  debauchery. Jahi is called a malicious fiend  and a harlot in the sacred ancient Persian book  Avesta .  See also:   avesta  Jambavat   In   the   Hindu   epic   poem   The  Ramayana,   the king of the bears, who aids  Rama in his invasion of Lanka (Sri Lanka).  Jambavat came into possession of a magic gem  that protected its owner if he remained good  but brought ruin on any evil person who had  it. The magic gem came to Jambavat after its  owner, Prasena, was killed by a lion for his evil  life. The lion was in turn killed by Jambavat,  who took the gem. Krishna (an incarnation of  the god Vishnu) then came in search of the gem  and fought Jambavat for 21 days. At the end of  the battle Jambavat not only gave Krishna the  gem but also offered his daughter, Jambavati.  Later Jambavat joined in the war against the  demon Ravana, who had abducted Rama’s wife,  Sita.  See also:   krishna; rama;   ramayana, the ;  ravana; vishnu  Jambavat   5 

=== 페이지 535 ===
James,   Jesse   (1847–1882)   In   American  history and folklore, killer-bandit who, accord -  ing to legend, stole from the rich to give to  the poor. Born in Clay County, Missouri, the  son of a preacher, Jesse and his brother Frank  led a band of thieves throughout the 1870s.  Popular sentiment was in James’s favor, as  expressed in the following folktale: One day  he and his brother Frank were given a meal  by a poor widow who was waiting for her  landlord to collect an $800 mortgage. Jesse  said the woman reminded him of his mother,  and he would lend her the money needed. All  she had to do was make sure the landlord gave  her a receipt for the amount before he left.  Jesse and Frank then left, and the landlord  arrived. Taking the widow’s money, he gave  her the requested receipt and rode off. But  he did not get too far before some masked  men held him up and took the $800. James  was later killed by one of his gang, Robert  Ford. His brother Frank became a respect -  able farmer in later life. The American ballad  “Jesse James” opens with:  Jesse James was a lad that killed many  a man.  He robbed the Danville train.  But that dirty little coward that shot  Mr. Howard [Jesse]  He laid poor Jesse in the grave.  It was Robert Ford, that dirty little  coward,  I wonder how he does feel:  For he ate of Jesse’s bread and slept  in Jesse’s bed  And laid poor Jesse in the grave.  Among the Hollywood movies about him  are   Jesse James   (1939),   The Return of Frank  James   (1940), and   The True Story of Jesse James  (1957); all are more legend than history.  See also:   belle starr  James the Greater, St.   (St. James Major)  (Greek form of Jacob, one who takes by the  heel, the supplanter)   (first century)   In the  Bible, N.T., Apostle; patron of Spain, pilgrims,  and furriers. Feast, 25 July.  James, along with Peter and John, was pres -  ent at the Transfiguration of Christ and the  agony in the garden (Mark 5:37; 9:2; 14:33).  After   Christ’s   Ascension   James   was   put   to  death by the sword at the command of Herod  Agrippa (Acts 12:2).  The scant information on James in the  New Testament was supplemented by medi -  eval Spanish legend in which he was turned  into St. Jago or Santiago, the military patron  saint of Spain. According to Spanish legend,  James was the son of Zebedee, an illustrious  baron of Galilee, who, as the proprietor of  ships, was accustomed to fish along the shores  of a certain lake called Gennesareth solely for  good pleasure and recreation. Having James  be the son of a well-to-do family, and not a  fisherman as in Scripture, accorded more with  Spanish concepts of class distinction. In   The  Divine Comedy   (Paradise 25:17) Dante calls St.  James “the baron,” alluding to the medieval  belief.  According to legend, after Christ’s Ascen -  sion, James preached the Gospel in Judea, then  traveled over much of the world, and at last  arrived in Spain, where he made few converts.  One day, as he stood with his disciples on  the banks of the river Ebro, the Virgin Mary  appeared to him seated on the top of a pilar  of jasper and surrounded by a choir of angels.  James threw himself on his face. The Virgin  then commanded him to build on that spot a  chapel for her worship, assuring him that all  this province of Saragossa, though now pagan,  would at a future time be devoted to her. James  did as he was told, and the church was called  Nuestra Señora del Pilar (Our Lady of the  Pillar). James then went back to Judea after  a contest with a magician, Hermogenes, who  not only renounced his evil ways but became  5    James, Jesse

=== 페이지 536 ===
a follower of James, who gave him his staff as  the most effective means of defense against  demons.   James   met   his   death   at   the   com -  mand of Herod Agrippa. His body was carried  to Joppa and conducted miraculously on an  unmanned boat with sails to Spain, where a  church was built in his honor by Queen Lupa  after the evil woman had been converted to  Christianity by a miracle. When Spain was  overrun by the Moors, the shrine of the saint  was forgotten, but in 800 the burial spot was  found by a friar. The saint’s body was moved  to Compostela, where it brought about many  miracles. In nearby Padron a huge stone is said  to be the boat that brought him back to Spain.  Spanish historians number some 38 appari -  tions of the saint in which he helped the Spanish  defeat their enemies. In one account St. James,  mounted on a milk-white charger and waving  aloft a white standard, led the Christians against  the Moors, leaving some 60,000 Moors dead on  the field. The battle cry from that engagement at  Clavijo was “Santiago,” the war cry of the Span -  iards for centuries. In art works he is presented  with the sword by which he was beheaded or  with his cloak covered with seashells.  See also:   apostle; john, st.; peter, st.  James the Less, St.   (St. James Minor) (Greek  form of Jacob, one who takes by the heel, the  supplanter)   (first century)   In the Bible, N.T.,  Apostle,   son   of   Alphaeus   (Matt.   10:3)   and  of Mary (not to be confused with the Virgin  Mary), mentioned in Mark (16:1). He is called  “the Less” in the King James Bible and “the  Younger”   in   the   Revised   Standard   Version.  Feast, 1 May. According to early Christian tra -  dition, he was the first bishop of Jerusalem and  was martyred when he was flung down from a  terrace or parapet of the temple and the mob  beat his brains out with a fuller’s club (which is  his symbol).  Janaka   (begetting)   In Hindu mythology, the  father of Sita, Rama’s wife. His daughter sprang  up from the furrow when he was ploughing  the earth for a sacrifice. Janaka was noted for  his wisdom as well as for his opposition to the  Brahmans.   The   Brahmanas,   sacred   writings,  say: “He refused to submit to the hierarchical  pretensions of the Brahamans, and asserted his  right of performing sacrifices without the inter -  vention of priests.” However, Janaka eventually  became a Brahman. In Hindu mythology Janaka  is also the name of the king of Mithila, who was  born from the dead body of his father.  See also:   brahman; rama  Jan-Teng   Fo   In   Chinese   Buddhism,   the  Lamp Bearing Buddha, or Buddha of Fixed  Light.   According   to   one   legend,   a   woman  offered a few coins to burn oil before an image  on Buddha’s altar. The lamp she lit never had St. James the Greater   (Albrecht Dürer)  Jan-Teng Fo   5 

=== 페이지 537 ===
to be replenished. It was then prophesied that  she would be born as a future Buddha, which,  in a later life, she achieved.  Januarius, St.   (fourth century?)   In Christ -  ian legend, bishop of Benevento, Italy; patron  saint of goldsmiths. Invoked against eruptions  of Mount Vesuvius. Feast, 19 September.  Januarius was beheaded for being a Chris -  tian; his body was taken to Naples and buried  in   the   cathedral.   Just   before   his   removal,  Mount Vesuvius was erupting and threatening  to destroy the entire city. No sooner had the  body of Januarius entered Naples than the  volcano   became   utterly   extinct,   “quenched  by the merits and patronage of the saint,”  according to Edward Kinesman’s   Lives of the  Saints.   When the volcano erupted again in  1631, St. Januarius was invoked, and again  the eruption ceased. The most famous feat of  the saint, however, concerns the liquefaction  of his own blood. The saint’s blood is kept in  two glass vials in the Church of San Gennaro  (Januarius) in Naples. “When either vial, held  in the right hand, is presented to the head of  the saint,” according to Kinesman’s account,  “the congealed blood first melts, and then  goes on apparently to boil.” The feat still  takes place each year, though scientists give  no satisfactory explanation. Each year a major  feast is held in Little Italy, in New York City,  in   honor   of   San   Gennaro.   Luca   Gordano  painted the   Martyrdom of St. Januarius,   and  Cosimo Fanzaga did a statue of the saint now  in the Duomo, Naples.  Janus   (passage)   In   Roman   mythology,  ancient Italian god of beginning, opening,  doorways, entrances, and endings; husband of  the spring nymph Juturna (or Cardea); father  of Fontus (Fons). The month of January is  named after Janus. In Rome it was the king  who sacrificed to Janus, and in later times it  was the   rex sacorum.   At each sacrifice Janus  was   mentioned   first   in   every   prayer,   even  before   Jupiter.   In   early   Italian   mythology,  Janus was connected with the sun as god of  light, opening the heavens in the morning  and closing them at the end of the day. As  god of beginnings, Janus was worshipped at  the beginning of the day, the month, and the  year. According to Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 1), when  people greeted one another at the beginning  of the year, they were to speak only words  of good omen and give gifts of sweetmeats.  In private worship Janus was invoked each  morning as   pater matutinus.   He was invoked  before any important undertaking, such as  harvest, marriage, or birth. His most impor -  tant worship was connected with the Roman  Forum. There the hearth fire of the Roman  state was kept in the temple of Vesta, and  there, symbolically, the people went out to  war through the door of the state. The House  of Janus (or Arch of Janus) was a small square  building of bronze with doors at each end.  Between them was a statue of Janus with two  faces, facing in two different directions. The  building was called   Jani gemini portoe.   This  building, according to Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book  7), was supposed to be opened with a formal  ceremony before a war and was to remain  Two-headed Janus, one of the oldest of Roman  gods, looked both to the past and to the future.  520   Januarius, St.

=== 페이지 538 ===
open as long as the army was in the field.  Janus’s main feast was the Agonalia held 9  January.  Janus is cited in Milton’s   Paradise Lost   where  the cherubim are described as: “Four faces  each / Had, like a double Janus.   .   .   .” (book  2.128–9), and by Shakespeare in   The Merchant  of Venice : “Now, by two-headed Janus, / Nature  hath fram’d strange fellows in her time.   .   .   .”  (1.1.50–1). Jonathan Swift’s   To Janus on New  Year’s Day   (1729) opens with “Two-fac’d Janus,  God of Time,” and W. H. Auden’s “New Year  Letter” uses “the Janus of a joke.”  Because of his two faces, or double-two,  Janus was sometimes known as Bifrons (two-  faced) or Quadrifrons (four-faced). The English  word   janitor   comes from one of the meanings  of Janus’s name, door. In Roman art he was  usually represented as a porter with a staff and  key in his hands and with two bearded faces  placed back to back and looking in opposite  directions. In late Roman art he is portrayed  both bearded and unbearded. Instead of a key  and staff, the fingers of his right hand exhibit  the number 300 (CCC), his left hand the num -  ber of the remaining days of the year (LXV).  See also:   aeneid, the ; ovid  Jara-sandha   In Hindu mythology, an enemy  of Krishna (an incarnation of the god Vishnu).  Jara-sandha was born from two mothers who  produced half boys; they were united by the  demon Jara. He was an ardent worshipper of  the god Shiva and opposed Krishna. In the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata   he is killed  by Bhima.  See also:   bhima; krishna;   mahabharata,  the ; shiva; vishnu  Jarnvidjur   (ironwood)   In Norse mythology,  the race of witches who lived east of Midgard  in a place called Jarnvid.  See also:   midgard  Jason   (healer)   In Greek mythology, a hero,  son of King Aeson of Thessaly and Alcimede  (mighty cunning) or Polymede; brother of  Promachus.   When   Pelias   seized   Aeson’s  throne, Jason was hidden and was brought  up by the centaur Chiron. Reaching man -  hood, Jason returned to Thessaly to claim the  throne. He arrived wearing only one sandal,  having lost the other while helping an old hag  (the goddess Hera in disguise). Having been  warned of his coming, Pelias said he would  gladly give up the throne to Jason, provided  he first capture the Golden Fleece of King  Aeëtes   at   Colchis.   Gathering   men   for   the  journey (which Pelias hoped would end in  Jason’s death), the hero built the largest (and  first) ship, called the   Argo,   and set sail. The  Argonauts reached Colchis, and Jason found  the Golden Fleece fastened to a sacred oak  guarded by a dragon who never slept. Athena  and Aphrodite came to Jason’s aid by having  Medea, King Aeëtes’ daughter, fall in love  with him. She helped him capture the fleece  by her skill in magic and sorcery. Medea then  fled with Jason, taking her young brother  Apsyrtus with her. When they were pursued  by Aeëtes, she cut up her brother and flung  the pieces of his body into the sea, knowing  her father would stop to retrieve them. They  then arrived at Circe’s island (she was aunt  to Medea), where they were purified of the  murder by pig’s blood. When the Colchians  caught   up   with   Jason,   he   quickly   married  Medea,   so   they   could   not   take   her   back  to   her   father.   Finally,   they   reached   King  Pelias   and   presented   the   Golden   Fleece,  which   was   hung   in   Zeus’s   temple.   Pelias  murdered   Jason’s   brother,   and   Medea,  again using her witchcraft, killed Pelias by  persuading his daughters that he would be  restored to youth if they cut up his body and  put it into a boiling caldron. Jason did not  take the throne but gave it to Pelias’s son and  returned to Corinth. After 10 years of mar -  riage to Medea, he decided to marry Creusa,  King Creon’s daughter. Seeking revenge for  her betrayal, Medea presented Jason’s new  bride with a beautiful garment that burned  Jason   52 

=== 페이지 539 ===
her to death when she put it on. Medea then  killed her own children, saying to Jason, in  the words of Robinson Jeffers’s play   Medea,  “because   I   hated   you   more   than   I   loved  them.” She then fled in a chariot to Athens,  where she married Aegeus, father of Theseus.  Jason died when part of the beached   Argo   fell  on him.  The   myth   of   Jason   inspired   Apollonius  Rhodius’s epic   Argonautica,   Ovid’s   Metamor -  phoses   (book 7), Euripides’   Medea,   and operas  based on it. Part of Chaucer’s   Legend of Good  Women,   Corneille’s   play,   Robinson   Jeffers’s  play, and William Morris’s narrative poem   The  Life and Death of Jason,   as well as works by Rob -  ert Graves and Jean Anouilh, are based on the  Euripides version of the myth.  See also:   aegeus; aphrodite; argo; argo -  nauts; athena; centaur; chaucer; golden  fleece; hera; medea; theseus; zeus  Jataka   (birth   story)   Buddhist   fables   and  folktales of the former lives of the Buddha,  collected about 400   c.e.   The Pali collection  contains   547   tales   in   which   Buddha   often  appears in animal or human form. These sto -  ries have little to do with the basic teachings  of Buddhism. They are concerned rather with  general moral virtues and the laws of Karma.  Each tale follows a formula. A short example is  number five,   Tandulanali-Jataka   (the measure  of rice tale):  One day a great uproar arose in the eat -  ing room of the monastery. The Buddha,  having sent to inquire the reason, learned  that Dabha Mulla, whose office it was  to distribute to each person his portion  of   rice,   had   given   great   dissatisfaction  by his method of distribution; hence the  disturbance. The Buddha ordered Dabha  Mulla to come before him, dismissed him  from his employment, and then related  the   Tandulanali-Jataka.   “In days of old a  certain foolish officer, whose duty it was  to fix value upon everything, was tempted  by a bribe to value the city of Bararais  and all it contained at a single measure  of rice, in consequence of which he was  dismissed with disgrace, and in his place a  wise minister was appointed, whose valu -  ations were always fair and equitable. The  Buddha in a former state of existence was  that officer.”  The influence of the Jataka on Buddhist  art is immense. In Ajanta, an ancient Bud -  dhist monastery located near Aurangabad in  the state of Manarashtra, India, for example,  numerous   frescoes   depicting   the   episodes  from the Jatakas are found. All Buddhist coun -  tries have their versions of the tales, which  are used for elementary teaching, especially  to children. The states have been reorganized  since independence.  Javerzaharses   and   Kaches   In   Armenian  folklore,   patron   guardians   of   marriage   and  childbirth   who   love   to   attend   weddings.  According to Armenian Christian writers, the  Kaches, who are the husbands, are used by  God as evil spirits to punish the wicked, a belief  stemming perhaps from the legend that the  wicked Armenian king Edward built a temple  to worship the Kaches.  Jay and the Peacock, The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world.  One day a jay found some feathers a pea -  cock had shed. Sticking them among his own  rusty black ones, he began to strut about,  ignoring and despising his old friends and  companions. Dressed in his borrowed plum -  age, he very cockily sought out a flock of  peacocks who were walking on the park lawn.  Instantly detecting the true identity of the  intruder, they stripped him of his finery and,  falling on him with their sharp beaks, they  drove him away.  The bedraggled jay, sadder but wiser, went  to his former companions. He would have  522   Jataka

=== 페이지 540 ===
been satisfied to associate with them again.  But   the   jays,   remembering   how   obnoxious  he   had   been   with   his   airs   and   his   vanity,  drummed him out of their society. One of  those whom he had so lately despised offered  him the following advice: “Be contented with  what nature made you and you will avoid the  contempt of your peers and the punishment of  your betters.”  Moral:   Happiness is not to be found in borrowed  finery.  Horace, in his   Epistles   (book 1), alludes to  the fable when he accuses one writer of bor -  rowing the writings of another and says he  will be found out “like the wretched crow  when stripped of her stolen hues.” Benedict of  Oxford, in his Hebrew version of the fables,  makes the bird a raven, although most English  versions call it a jackdaw. Thackeray included  the fable in the Prologue to his novel   The  Newcomers.  See also:   aesopic fables  Jayanti   (conquering)   In Hindu mythology,  the daughter of Indra, the storm god.  See also:   indra  Jemshid   (Jamshid)   In Persian mythology, a  culture hero and proud king, appearing in the  epic poem   Shah Namah   by Firdusi.  Jemshid is a later form of the earlier divine  hero Yima in Persian mythology. Firdusi took  some of the exploits of the earlier mythological  personage and used them in his epic. During  Jemshid’s reign, according to Firdusi, the first  manufacture of iron weapons took place, as  well as the making of linen and silk clothing,  work in precious stones, and the invention of  perfume and the art of medicine.  One day Jemshid ordered the demons who  were under his power to lift him into the air  so that he could see everything and be moved  anywhere he wanted to go. All of this power  and honor made the king too proud. He said to  his learned men and ministers: “Tell me if there  exists, or ever existed, in all the world, a king of  such magnificence and power as I am?”  “Thou art alone, the mightiest, the most  victorious. There is no equal to thee,” the  frightened ministers replied.  Allah saw how foolish the king was in what  he said and punished him by throwing his  empire into chaos. Jemshid’s reign lasted for  some 700 years. He was killed by the evil king,  Zahhak, who captured him. Zahhak ordered  two planks to be brought and fastened Jemshid  down between them. His body was then sawed  in two.  See also:   shah namah ; yima; zahhak  Jephthah   (he sets free)   In the Bible, O.T.,  one of the judges of Israel, whose daughter  went out to greet him on his return home  from victory over the Ammonites, unaware  that her father had vowed to offer up as a  sacrifice   to   Yahweh,   the   Hebrew   god,   the  first thing he met on returning home. The  tale is told in the book of Judges (11:1–12:7).  Jephthah’s daughter appears in one of the  ballads   included   in   Percy’s   Reliques,   titled  “Jephtah Judge of Israel,” which is quoted by  Hamlet (act 1, sc. 2, line 400). She also appers  in Alfred, Lord Tennyson’s poem “Dream of  Fair Women,” and Handel’s oratorio   Jephthah  deals with the legend.  See also:   reliques ; yahweh  Jephthah   523  The Jay and the Peacock

=== 페이지 541 ===
Jeremiah   (whom Yahweh appoints)   In the  Bible, O.T., one of the Major Prophets and  title   of   an   Old   Testament   book.   Jeremiah  is   sometimes   called   the   “weeping   proph -  et”   because   he   foretold   the   destruction   of  Jerusalem. In later Jewish legend, not recorded  in the Bible, Jeremiah was taken to Egypt  and stoned to death because of his gloomy  predictions. Tradition credited him with the  authorship of the Book of Lamentations in the  Old Testament, though no present-day scholar  accepts this. Our word   jeremiad,   a pitiful tale  or, a tale of woe, is derived from the prophet’s  name. Rembrandt’s   Jeremiah   is one of the best  paintings portraying the prophet.  Jerome, St.   (sacred name)   (c. 342–420)   In  Christian   legend,   one   of   the   Four   Latin  Doctors of the Church. Translator of the Latin  Jephthah and his daughter  Jeremiah   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  524   Jeremiah

=== 페이지 542 ===
Bible called the Vulgate, which was the Bible  of the Middle Ages. Patron of scholars. Feast,  30 September.  Eusebius   Hieronymus   Sophronius,   or  Jerome, was born at Strido near Aquileia. After  a life of study and debate he left for Bethle -  hem in 385 to devote his time to retranslating  the Latin Bible from the original languages  because most of the current translations were  flawed. Jerome was helped with his translations  from the Hebrew Bible by Jews as well as by  a group of women, the most notable being St.  Paula.  Jerome was noted for his sharp wit and his  bitter attacks on his enemies. He often was at  variance with St. Augustine; they wrote polite  letters to one another filled with venom. But St.  Jerome’s most famous letter deals with being a  Christian virgin. Its merits for a woman, he  writes, are far above marriage; wedlock only  gives women “pregnancy, a crying baby, the  tortures of jealousy, the cares of household  management and the cutting short by death of  all its fancied blessings.”  The legend most associated with the saint  concerns a lion. One day Jerome was read -  ing with some monks when a lion entered the  study. Though the lion was lame and limping,  the monks were so frightened by the beast that  they all ran away. St. Jerome stayed in the room,  and the lion came up to him. The lion lifted its  paw into the saint’s hand, showing how it was  bleeding from a thorn. Jerome extracted the  thorn and bandaged the paw. When the lion  was able to use its paw, Jerome set it to work  for the monastery. Each day the lion would  fetch food with the help of a donkey. One day  the donkey was stolen by some traders, and  the lion was accused of eating him, so Jerome  forced the lion to do the work of the donkey.  After some time the merchants returned, led  by the stolen donkey, who was recognized by  the lion. The lion chased the merchants and  brought back the donkey.  St. Jerome is often portrayed with a lion  nearby. Sometimes a large cat takes its place.  He is also shown doing penance in a desert  with a lion nearby. Sometimes a cardinal’s hat is  shown, though there is no historical authority  for Jerome having been a cardinal.  See also:   augustine, st.; doctors of the  church; lion  Jesus   Christ   (Greek,   Joshua,   “Yahweh  saves,” and anointed one, the Messiah)   In  Christianity, the Messiah, the Son of God,  second person of the Holy Trinity made up  of God the Father, God the Son, and God the  Holy Spirit. In Islam, Jesus is not God’s son but  is considered a prophet. Numerous incidents of  his life are given in the Koran.  Details of the life of Jesus are presented in  the four Gospels of the Christian New Testa -  ment. In the first three, those of St. Matthew,  St. Mark, and St. Luke, many of the same  incidents are narrated, earning them the title  of the Synoptic Gospels, though they differ  Jesus Christ   525  St. Jerome   (Albrecht Dürer)

=== 페이지 543 ===
in details. The last Gospel, that of St. John,  differs radically from the first three. In John’s  Gospel Jesus speaks in Gnostic terms, stress -  ing the difference between those who have the  Light and those who are in Darkness. Most  modern scholars agree that it is impossible  to reconstruct the “historical Jesus,” since all  of the documents are written from a Chris -  tian bias—the beliefs of the early Christian  church—to prove that Jesus was the Messiah  and the Son of God. No record of Jesus’  existence   is   found   in   other   contemporary  sources.  Though the character of Jesus varies in the  Gospels, the early church began to stress cer -  tain aspects of his person. St. Paul, writing in  the New Testament, saw Jesus as the mediator  between God and man. From Paul’s epistles, or  letters, it is clear that he does not place Jesus on  a plane with God. For Paul, Jesus stopped the  righteous anger of God against mankind by his  sacrifice on the cross.  Further development in the person of Christ  is found in the writings of the early Church  outside of the New Testament. St. Ignatius,  bishop of Antioch (first century), writes on the  Incarnation (the term used for God being made  into man): “There is one physician, fleshly  and spiritual, begotten and unbegotten, God  in man, true life in death, both of Mary and  of God, first passable then impassable, Jesus  Christ Our Lord.”  When St. Irenaeus (c. 130–c. 200) writes  on the person of Jesus, we have the belief,  also found in St. John’s Gospel, but not in the  other three, that Jesus existed as God with God  before the world began: “We have shown that  the Son of God did not then begin to exist. He  existed with the Father always; but when he  was incarnate and made man, he recapitulated  in himself the long line of the human race,  procuring for us salvation thus summarily, so  that what we had lost in Adam, that is, being in  the image and likeness of God, that we should  regain in Christ Jesus.” However, these state -  ments are those of the church that survived  down   to   the   Middle   Ages,   since   the   early  Christian heresies were wiped out. From them,  we have a much different concept of the person  of Jesus. Certain heresies stressed that Jesus was  only God and assumed human form, but not  human nature along with it. Others said only  a mirage of Jesus died on the cross. The view  that finally dominated was that Jesus was fully  man as well as fully God. This is found in the  statement of the Council of Chalcedon (act V)  held in 451.  Therefore, following the holy fathers, we  all with one accord teach men to acknowl -  edge one and the same Son, our Lord Jesus  Christ, at once complete in Godhead and  complete in manhood, truly God and truly  man, consisting also of a reasonable soul  and body; of one substance with the Father  as regards his Godhead, and at the same  time of one substance with us as regards  his manhood; like us in all respects, apart  from sin; as begotten for us men and for  our salvation, of Mary the Virgin, the God-  bearer ( Theotokos ); one and the same Christ,  Son, Lord, Only-begotten, recognized in  two   natures   without   confusion,   without  change, without division, without separa -  tion; the distinction of natures being in no  way annulled by the union, but rather the  characteristics of each nature preserved and  coming together to form one person and  526   Jesus Christ  Flight into Egypt of Joseph and Mary

=== 페이지 544 ===
substance, not as parted or separated into  two persons, but one and the same Son and  Only-begotten God the Word, Lord Jesus  Christ; even as the prophets from earliest  times spoke of him, and our Lord Jesus  Christ himself taught us, and the creed of  the Fathers has handed down to us.  Jesus not only appears in the New Testa -  ment but also in Islamic legends, in which  he is accorded the status of a prophet. The  Koran, the sacred book of Islam, calls Jesus: Isa  (Jesus), Isa the Maryam (Jesus the son of Mary),  Al-Masih (The Messiah), Kalimatu’llah (The  Word of Allah), Qaulu ’l-Haqq (The Word  of Truth), Ruhum min Allah (A Spirit from  Allah), Rasulu ’llah (The Messenger of Allah),  Abdu’llah (The Servant of Allah), Nabiyu’llah  (The Prophet of Allah), Wajihun fi ’d-dunya  wa ’lakhirah (Illustrious in this World and in  the Next). Episodes from the life of Jesus are  found scattered throughout the Koran. Most  of them are believed to be derived from early  Christian legends and writings, but not the  New Testament, since they often contradict  the New Testament and agree with various  Christian heresies that existed at the time of  Muhammad. He may have heard most of the  Jesus Christ   527  The Temptation in the Wilderness   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)

=== 페이지 545 ===
tales orally. Jesus’ birth of a virgin mother is  believed in Islam. The Annunciation to the  Virgin and his birth is narrated in Sura 19.  Muhammad believed, as did some heretical  Christians, that Jesus was not crucified at all,  but that Judas took his place on the cross, or  that there was only Jesus’ likeness on the cross.  Sura 4 of the Koran says: “Yet they slew him  not, and they crucified him not, but they had  only his likeness. And they who differed about  him were in doubt concerning him; No sure  knowledge had they about him, but followed  only an opinion, and they really did not slay  him, but God took him up to Himself. And  God is Mighty, Wise.” Though Jesus is highly  praised in Islam, the Koran makes it quite clear  that he is not God when it states in Sura 19:  “Allah could not take to Himself a son.” And in  Sura 5: “The Messiah, the son of Mary, is only  a prophet.” The Christian belief in the Trinity  seems to have been misunderstood by Muham -  mad, who may have thought it consisted of the  Father, the Son, and the Virgin Mary.  The main events in the life of Jesus, as  recorded in the Gospels are birth of John the  Baptist foretold (Luke 1:5–13), Annunciation  (Luke 1:26–31, Matt. 1:18–23), birth and nam -  ing of John (Luke 1:57–63), birth of Jesus (Luke  52    Jesus Christ  The Sermon on the Mount   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)

=== 페이지 546 ===
2:1–14),   circumcision   and   naming   of   Jesus  (Luke 2:21), presentation in the temple (Luke  2:22), coming of the Magi (Matt. 2:1), flight  to   and   return   from   Egypt   (Matt.   2:13–23),  Jesus in the temple (Luke 2:41–50), baptism of  Jesus (Matt. 3:13–17, Mark 1:9–10, Luke 3:21–  22), temptation of Jesus (Matt. 4:1–11, Mark  1:12, Luke 4:1–13), call of first disciples (Matt.  4:18–22,   Mark   1:16–20,   Luke   5:1–11,   John  1:35–51), Sermon on the Mount (Matt chaps.  5–7, Luke 6:17–49), first miracle (John 2:1–11),  Nicodemus visits Jesus (John 3:1–15), John the  Baptist’s death (Matt. 14:1–12, Mark 6:14–29),  the transfiguration (Matt. 17:1–8, Mark 9:2–8,  Luke (9:28–36), raising of Lazarus (John 11:1–  44),   Jesus   enters   Jerusalem   (Matt.   21:1–11,  Mark 11:1–11, Luke 19:28–44), cleansing of  the temple (Matt. 21:12–16, Mark 11:15–19,  Luke 19:45–48), the Last Supper (Matt. 26:20–  29,   Mark   14:22–25,   Luke   22:14–21),   Jesus  washes his disciples’ feet (John 13:3–14), Jesus’  agony (Matt. 26:36–46, Mark 14:32–42, Luke  22:39–46, John 18:1), betrayal and arrest (Matt.  26:47–56, Mark 14:43–50, Luke 22:47–54, John  18:2), Peter’s denials (Matt. 26:69–75, Mark  14:66–72, Luke 22:54–62, John 18:15), Jesus  before Pilate (Matt. 27:3, 11–26, Mark 15:1–15,  Luke 23:1–25, John 18:28–40), Jesus mocked  (Matt. 27:27–31, Mark 15:16–20, John 19:2),  crucifixion, death, and burial (Matt. 27:35–66,  Mark 15:24–47, Luke 23:33–56, John 19:18–  42), resurrection (Matt. 28:1, Mark 16:1, Luke  24:1, John 20:1). The parables recorded in the  Gospels are The Builders (Matt 7:24–27, Luke  6:47–49), The Sower (Matt. 13:3, Mark 4:1,  Luke 8:4), The Wheat and the Tares (Matt.  13:24–30), The Mustard Seed (Matt. 13:31,  Mark 4:30, Luke 13:18), The Leaven (Matt.  13:33, Luke 13:20), The Pearl of Great Price  (Matt. 13:45), The Unmerciful Servant (Matt.  18:23–35), The Laborers in the Vineyard (Matt.  20:1–16), The Two Sons (Matt. 21:28–32), The  Wicked Husbandmen (Matt. 21:33–56, Luke  20:9–18), The Marriage Feast (Matt. 22:1–14),  The Fig Tree (Matt. 24:32), The Ten Virgins  (Matt. 25:1–13), The Talents (Matt. 25:14–30),  The Good Samaritan (Luke 10:25–37), The  Rich   Fool   (Luke   12:13–21),   The   Dishonest  Steward (Luke 16:1–14), The Rich Man and  Lazarus (Luke 16:19–31).  See also:   apostle; gnostism; ignatius, st.;  muhammad; virgin mary; koran, the  Jezebel   (prince, exalted, i.e., Baal)   In the  Bible, O.T., Phoenician wife of King Ahab of  the northern kingdom of Israel in the ninth  century   b.c.e.,   symbol   of   an   evil   woman.  Jezebel was the foe of the prophet Elijah, who  prophesied her doom, saying, “The dogs shall  eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel” (1 Kings  21:23). Eventually, she was killed when Jeru  entered her city and had two eunuchs throw  her out of her window. Jeru’s horses trampled  her body. After he had dined, Jeru ordered  his soldiers to bury Jezebel’s body, but the  dogs had eaten it, leaving the skull, feet, and  palms of her hands (2 Kings 9:35). A “painted  Jezebel   52   Jesus on the Cross

=== 페이지 547 ===
Jezebel” refers to a woman of bold spirit and  loose morals.  See also:   elijah  Jigoku   In Japanese Buddhist mythology, hell  located underneath the earth’s surface. Jigoku  consists of eight hells of fire and eight of ice.  Each of the eight is then divided into sixteen  distinct hells. The ruler of Jigoku is Emma-  hoo, portrayed with a ferocious expression and  dressed as a Chinese judge wearing a cap. In  the paintings and prints of Jigoku that portray  Emma-hoo there are heads on either side of  him, each on a supporting stand. One is a  female head, Miru-me, who can see all sinners’  actions and from whom nothing can be hid -  den. The other head is Kagu-hana (the nose  that smells), who can detect the smallest sin. A  demon will take a sinner before a magic mir -  ror, where his or her sins are revealed. Prayers  by the living, through a Buddhist priest, may  eventually save the sinner.  Jim Bludso   (1838–1905)   In American folk -  lore, a Mississippi steamboat engineer who was  burned to death while saving his passengers  from fire. He appears in John Hay’s   Pike County  Ballads.  Jim Bridger   (1804–1881)   In American folk -  lore, a frontiersman, discoverer of the Great  Salt Lake in 1824, of South Pass in 1827, of  Yellowstone Park in 1830 (44 years before it  was   “officially”   discovered),   and   founder   of  Fort Bridger on the Oregon Trail in 1843.  Bridger was known for his sense of humor,  and he loved to shock tenderfeet and eastern -  ers with his tall tales. He told of glass moun -  tains and “peetrified” birds singing “peetrified”  songs, and reminisced about the days when  Pikes Peak was just a hole in the ground. His  stories were related in such a serious manner as  to fool even skeptics into believing them, mak -  ing Jim’s laughter all the louder when his ruse  was revealed. When he passed over a precipice  through a petrified mountain in Yellowstone  with his horse, he said that gravity itself had  become petrified.  Jimmu   Tenno   (660–585   b.c.e.? )   Accord -  ing to Shinto belief, first emperor of Japan,  descended from the sun goddess, Amaterasu.  The period before the advent of Jimmu Tenno  is called   jindai   (the age of the kami) or   taiko  (remote antiquity).  See also:   amaterasu omikami  Jina   In   Buddhism   and   Jainism,   Sanskrit  title meaning conqueror; often used for the  Buddha in Buddhism and in Jainism for its  leaders.  Jingo Kogo   (170–269   c.e. )   In Japanese leg -  end, empress who set out to conquer Korea.  The gods twice ordered her husband, the  emperor Chuai, to conquer Korea, but the  monarch   paid   no   attention   to   the   deities.  After his death the empress, under the guid -  ance of the gods, decided to undertake the  conquest of Korea. Setting out, she stopped  to fish at Matsura Gawa with three grains of  rice as bait (the catching of fish was believed  to be a lucky omen). She also prayed that if  she was to succeed in her venture her hair  would part as she was bathing, and this hap -  pened. All of the gods are said to have come  to her aid, with the exception of Izora, the  god of the seashore, who came clad in mud.  However, the empress was served by Ryujin,  the king of the sea. When a storm arose, large  fish came to the surface of the sea to support  the boats and prevent them from foundering.  Hearing of this, the king of Korea promptly  sent   80   boats   laden   with   gold,   silver,   and  cloth   as   tribute.   He   repeated   the   practice  each year.  Jingo Kogo had set out while she was preg -  nant, but she delayed the birth by attaching a  heavy stone to her waist. When she returned  to Japan, her son Ojin was born. She did not  ascend the throne again but served as Ojin’s  regent for 69 years.  530   Jigoku

=== 페이지 548 ===
In Japanese art Jingo Kogo is often por -  trayed writing the words   Koku O   (ruler of state)  on a rock. She often is shown with a wide band  around her forehead.  Jingu-ji   In Japan, a Buddhist temple within  the compound of a Shinto shrine.  Jiten   In Japanese Buddhist mythology, earth  goddess,   derived   from   the   Hindu   goddess  Prithivi. She is portrayed as a woman holding  in her right hand a basket of peonies. She is one  of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese Buddhist gods and  goddesses adopted from Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o  Jiu No O   (Jiu ni Ten)   In Japanese Buddhist  mythology, 12 gods and goddesses derived from  Hindu mythology. They are Jiten, Gwaten,  Bishamon, Futen, Suiten, Rasetsu Ten, Bonten,  Nitten, Ishana Ten, Taishaku Ten, Kwaten, and  Emma Ten.  See   also:   bishamon; bonten; emma ten;  futen; gwaten; ishana ten, kwaten; jiten;  nitten; rasetsu; suiten; taishaku ten  Jizo Bosatsu   In Japanese Buddhist mythol -  ogy,   the   name   of   the   Sanskrit   Bodhisattva,  Kshitigarbha   (earth   womb),   consoler   of   the  dead, protector of women and children; called  Ti-Tsang in China. As Jizo Bosatsu he is por -  trayed in the robes of a Buddhist monk, holding  a monk’s staff in one hand and a precious jewel  in the other. This is his most popular form in  Japan, though he also appears as Shogun Jizo  (Jizo of the victorious armies), a war god mount -  ed on horseback, and as Roku Juzo (the sixth  Jizo), referring to his multiplication of himself  into six beings to help save the world. The num -  ber six refers to the six realms of rebirth; also  associated with roads and mountains.  See also:   bodhisattva  Jo and Uba   In Japanese mythology, two  spirits of pine trees. They are portrayed as an  old wrinkled couple gathering pine needles, Jo  with a rake, Uba with a broom and a fan. The  two are usually accompanied by the crane and  tortoise, symbols of longevity.  Joan of Arc, St.   (form of John, “Yahweh has  been   gracious”)   (1412–1431)   In   Christian  legend, patron of France. Feast, 30 May.  At 13 years old Joan had visions that she  later identified as the voices of St. Michael,  St. Catherine, and St. Margaret. When Henry  VI of England began the siege of Orleans in  1428, Joan, convinced that God had chosen  her to remove the English from French soil,  set out. She told the dauphin (later Charles  VII) of her mission and, in male dress, led  the French troops to victory in May and June  of   1429.   She   stood   beside   Charles   VII   at  his coronation in July. Not having sufficient  numbers of troops to continue her campaign,  however, she was taken prisoner in May 1430  by the Burgundians, who sold her to the Eng -  lish. She was tried on 12 charges of sorcery,  wantonness in cutting her hair, and wearing  male attire. While she was in jail, an English  lord tried to rape her. A physical examina -  tion showed that Joan was a virgin, though  the results were falsified by Bishop Cauchon,  who sat at her trial. At first she gave in and  signed a recantation of her claim to have been  guided by Divine Providence, but in the fol -  lowing days she resumed her male attire and  repudiated her recantation. She said, “If I  were to be condemned and saw the fire lit and  the wood prepared and the executioner who  was to burn me ready to cast me into the fire,  still in the fire would I not say anything other  than I have said, and I will maintain what I  have said until death.”  The Trial of Joan of Arc: Being the verba -  tim report of the proceedings from the Orleans  Manuscript,   translated by W. S. Scott (1956),  recounts that after the sentence was read, the  bishop, the inquisitor, and many of the judges  went away, leaving Joan on the scaffold. The  order to burn her was given by an Englishman.  “When   Jeanne   heard   this   order   given,   she  Joan of Arc, St.   53 

=== 페이지 549 ===
began to weep and lament in such a way that all  the people present were themselves moved to  tears.” The fire was lighted and Joan was “mar -  tyred tragically,” according to the account.  St. Joan was canonized in 1920 and has  been a favorite subject in music and literature.  In Shakespeare’s   Henry VI,   she is called a witch  and seen as an impostor. Voltaire in his   La  Purcelle   ridiculed Joan, making her visions part  of her madness. Schiller, however, in his poetic  tragedy   Die Jungfrau von Orleans,   looked at  Joan with a romantic and heroic cast of mind.  She is not burned at the end of the play but  dies in battle. Mark Twain wrote   Personal Recol -  lections of Joan of Arc,   in which he looks with  kindly eyes upon the girl, whereas Anatole  France’s   Life of Joan of Arc   presents a more  skeptical approach to the subject. Perhaps the  most touching play is G. B. Shaw’s   Saint Joan,  in which both sides, Joan’s and the church’s,  are presented in a good light, in contradiction  to history. Shaw did not wish to pick sides but  merely to depict the clash of different ide -  ologies. Jean Anouilh’s   L’Alouette,   translated by  Christopher Fry as   The Lark,   presented a dif -  ferent Joan, one more poetic and less convinc -  ing as a human being.  In films the legend of Joan of Arc has been  told several times. Geraldine Farrar played her  in   Joan the Woman.   Dreyer’s   The Passion of Joan  of Arc   is considered the classic treatment of the  subject on film, though other versions have  appeared. Ingrid Bergman’s   Joan of Arc   is a very  stiff Hollywood treatment of the subject.   Saint  Joan,   with Jean Seberg, based on the Shaw  play, was a box office failure. Hedy Lamarr  made a short appearance as Joan in the   Story of  Mankind,   and Robert Bresson did   The Trial of  Joan of Arc   with Florence Carrez. Two recent  films featured Leelee Sobieski (1999) and Milla  Jovovich (1999) in the role of Joan.  Opera composers also have found Joan of  Arc’s legend of interest, with more than 25  works devoted to her, though only two are still  performed. Verdi composed a   Giovanni d’Arco,  and Tchaikovsky rejected the unhistorical end -  ing of Schiller and instead has Joan die at the  stake in his opera   The Maid of Orleans.  Though Joan of Arc has fared well in litera -  ture, movies, and opera, there are few notewor -  thy paintings of the saint. Ingres’   Joan of Arc  at the Coronation of Charles VII   is in the rather  stiff, mechanical style that Ingres developed to  perfection.  See   also:   catherine of alexandria, st.;  margaret, st.  Job   (inveterate   foe)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,  name of a hero and title of a book. The bib -  lical Job is believed to be based on a figure  in Near Eastern legend as well as on two  Babylonian works,   The Poem of the Righteous  Sufferer   and the   Acrostic Dialogue on Theodicy.  The Book of Job is largely in the form of  poetry, though parts of it, the introduction  and epilogue, are in prose and indicate that  the work is based on a folktale. Job was a good  man who worshipped God. In return God  rewarded Job with many children and with  material prosperity. Satan, the Adversary, who  was part of God’s court, taunted God, saying  Job was good only because God took such  good care of him. Remove his wealth and Job  would curse God, Satan contended. God took  up the challenge. Job lost his children and  his wealth, and finally he was afflicted with  a horrible skin disease. Three friends, Bilad,  Eliphaz, and Zophar, his “comforters,” came  to discuss why God had afflicted Job. They  contended that Job must have sinned and that  God was punishing him for his sin. This belief  of reward for good in this life and punishment  for evil are central to most Old Testament  thought and had a great influence on Puritan  and   Fundamentalist   beliefs.   Job,   however,  would not accept his guilt. He argued with  his   friends,   saying   that   although   God   was  punishing him, he was innocent. Finally, God  revealed himself to Job in all of his splendor.  The question “Why do the innocent suffer?”  is not answered. Instead Job is awed by God  and accepts all. The Book of Job concludes  532   Job

=== 페이지 550 ===
with a prose folk tale in which Job’s goods  and health are restored, a contradiction of the  main poetic theme of the book.  Some critics consider Job the greatest book  in the Bible. Martin Luther called it “magnifi -  cent and sublime as no other book of the Scrip -  ture,” and Alfred, Lord Tennyson believed it to  be “the greatest poem of ancient and modern  times.” Major art works inspired by Job include  a series of etchings by William Blake and a sym -  phonic score,   Job, a Masque for Dancing,   based  on the Book of Job and the Blake etchings, by  the English composer Ralph Vaughn Williams.  In Islamic legend Job is called Aiyub and is  cited in the Koran (sura 21): “And remember  Job: When he cried to his Lord.”  See also:   satan  Jocasta   (Iocaste) (shining moon)   In Greek  mythology, both mother and wife of Oedipus,  whom she married not knowing he was her  son; mother of Eteocles, Polynices, Antigone,  and Ismene; daughter of Menoeceus. When  Jocasta learned she was Oedipus’ mother, she  killed herself by hanging. Jocasta appears in  Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11), where she is seen in  the underworld by Odysseus. Homer calls her  Epicaste. Sophocles’   Oedipus Tyrannus,   often  Job Laments His State   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Jocasta   533

=== 페이지 551 ===
called   Oedipus Rex,   and Euripides’   Phoenician  Women   also feature Jocasta, as do modern ver -  sions of the Oedipus myth by Cocteau and  Gide.  See also:   antigone; eteocles; polynices;  odyssey, the ; oedipus  Joe Baldwin   In American folklore, a train  conductor who was decapitated when his train  was rammed by another train. The story dates  back to 1867. In that year Joe Baldwin was a  conductor for the Atlantic Coast Railroad line,  and his job involved riding in the last car of  the train. One night, as the train was steaming  along, he realized that his car seemed to be  slowing down. He realized that it had become  uncoupled and there was another train follow -  ing behind. He was sure he would crash into  the slowly moving car. Joe ran out onto the rear  platform of the car and started wildly waving  his signal lantern, trying to get the attention  of the engineer of the train behind him. The  engineer failed to see the lantern and con -  tinued on, finally crashing into the car where  Joe had remained at his post. The coach was  completely demolished, and Joe was killed, his  head severed from his body. A witness reported  that Joe stayed where he was, waving the lan -  tern, through the entire wreck. Just seconds  before the engine collided with the car, Joe’s  lantern was hurled away as if by some unseen  but mighty force. It hit the ground and rolled  over and over again, finally coming to rest in a  perfectly upright position. His lantern is said  to still glow on certain nights, preventing train  disasters. It is locally called the Maco Railroad  Light (Maco, North Carolina).  See also:   casey jones  Joe Magarac   (jackass)   In American literary  folklore, a superhuman steelworker and folk  hero of the Pittsburgh area steel mills, invent -  ed by Owen Francis, who published his Joe  Magarac tales in 1931. Joe, born inside an ore  mountain, was seven feet tall and made of steel.  He worked day and night, only taking time out  to eat five meals a day. He ended his life when  he melted down his body to make steel for a  new mill. He explains his name when he says:  “Dat’s me. All I do is eatit and workit same lak  jackass donkey.”  See also:   fakelore; folklorism; paul bun -  yan; pecos bill; mike fink  John Barleycorn   In English and Scottish  folklore, personification of barley, the grain  used to produce liquors.  John Chrysostom, St.   (Yahweh is gracious,  golden-mouthed)   (c. 347–407)   In Christian  legend, one of the Four Greek Doctors of the  Church. Invoked against epilepsy. Feast, 30  March.  Born in Antioch, he was ordained in 363  and soon was recognized for his eloquence,  which obtained for him the name Chrysostom  or Golden Mouth. In 403 at the Synod of the  Oak,   John’s   enemies—and   they   were   many  since he was rather violent and provocative  in his language—got him banished from his  see. He was recalled, but then he angered the  empress Eudoxia and was exiled to Armenia.  He was to be moved from there to Pytius in  Colchis but died at Comana.  Gibbon in his   Decline and Fall of the Roman  Empire   writes that “his relics, thirty years after  his death, were transported from their obscure  sepulcher   to   the   royal   city.   The   Emperor  Theodosius advanced to receive them as far as  Chalcedon, and falling prostrate on the coffin,  implored, in the name of his guilty parents,  Arcadius and Eudosia, the forgiveness of the  injured saint.”  See also:   doctors of the church  John Henry   In American folklore, a black  hero, born in Black River Country “where the  sun don’t never shine.” When John Henry was  born, he weighed 44 pounds. His mother said  he had a “bass voice like a preacher,” and his  father said “He got shoulders like a cotton-rol -  lin’ rousterabout.” When John Henry finished  534   Joe Baldwin

=== 페이지 552 ===
his first meal, he went out in search of work.  Eventually he found his way to the Chesapeake  & Ohio Railroad, which at that time was laying  track and driving (digging) tunnels. The major  episode in his legend tells of his contest with  a steam drill. John Henry drove faster than  the steam drill but died “with a hammer in his  hand” from the exertion, according to one John  Henry ballad. In another account he died dur -  ing the night from a burst blood vessel. Other  accounts say John Henry died on the gallows  for murdering a man.  He appears in Roark Bradford’s novel   John  Henry,   as well as in numerous American ballads  that were collected by Guy B. Johnson in   John  Henry: Tracking Down a Negro Legend.   Guy  Johnson’s research indicated that the earliest  John Henry ballads originated in the oral tradi -  tion of hammer songs in the 1870s and evolved  over time into the ballads with which we are  familiar today. Alan Lomax recorded several  variants of the song in his   Prison Songs, Volume  II.   In some accounts John Henry is said to be  white, not black.  Johnny Appleseed   (1774–1847)   In Ameri -  can   history   and   folklore,   popular   name   of  John Chapman, Massachusetts-born orchard -  ist, who planted fruit trees in Pennsylvania,  Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. Johnny Appleseed  was a hermit and a wanderer who was wel -  comed wherever he went in the Ohio ter -  ritory. Everyone loved him, in spite of his  unkempt   appearance.   He   always   carried   a  sack full of apple seeds to plant, and walked  barefoot all year round. He knew the frontier  woods better than anyone. Even the Indians  respected Johnny Appleseed for his courage.  He appears in numerous legends, a combina -  tion St. Francis and Yankee peddler, going  from place to place, unharmed by the Indians,  carrying his tools and a Bible. He appears in  Vachel Lindsay’s free-verse poem “In Praise  of Johnny Appleseed” and in the pageant   The  Return of Johnny Appleseed   by Charles Allen  Smart.  John the Baptist, St.   (Yahweh is gracious)  (first century)   Patron of farriers and tailors.  Forerunner of Christ. Feast, 24 June.  His life is narrated in the New Testament,  where he is the son of Elizabeth, a relation  of the Virgin Mary. John lived in Judea and  preached on repentance for the forgiveness of  sin. Thousands came to be baptized by him,  including Jesus. John reproved King Herod for  living in adultery with Herodias, his brother  Philip’s wife. One day Salome (not named in  the New Testament), the daughter of Hero -  dias, so pleased the king by her dancing that he  vowed he would give her whatever she chose,  even half his kingdom. Her mother told her to  ask for the head of John the Baptist. The king,  unable to take back an oath, sent the execu -  tioner to cut off the prophet’s head.  St. Jerome writes that the disciples of John  the Baptist buried the headless body in Sebaste,  in Samaria, where many miracles took place at  St. John the Baptist  John the Baptist, St.   535

=== 페이지 553 ===
the tomb of the saint. Julian the Apostate was  so annoyed by all of the miracles, according  to the   Ecclesiastical History   of Ruffinus, that he  had the body disinterred and burned to ashes.  Some Christians, however, saved some of the  bones.  The head of the saint was buried, according  to the same source, by Herodias in the palace of  King Herod. It remained hidden until St. John  the Baptist appeared to some men and told  them where it was hidden. They stole the head  and wrapped it in camel’s hair. For centuries,  however, two churches vied with each other,  each claiming it had the head of the saint.  In Christian art St. John the Baptist is one  of the most frequently portrayed saints. Nar -  rations of his life usually include the following  incidents culled from the New Testament: the  annunciation to Zacharias (Luke 1:5–32) of  John’s coming birth; the birth and naming of  St. John (Luke 1:57–64); St. John in the wilder -  ness (Luke 1:8); baptizing (Matt. 3:5–6); rebuk -  ing King Herod for his evil life (Mark 6:17–20);  the banquet of Herod at which Salome danced  for his head (Mark 6:21–28); beheading, or  decollation, and the presentation of the head  to Herodias. The burning of the saint’s bones  by Julian the Apostate sometimes also appears,  as in the medieval art of northern Europe.  The saint has been painted by such artists as  Tintoretto, Raphael, Titian, Fra Angelico, Da  Vinci, and Caravaggio, who in 1595 portrayed  the saint playfully embracing a lamb or sheep  and again in 1610. In both instances the models  seem to have been male favorites of the artist,  who was noted for his male lovers.  In the Islamic legend, Yahyu is the name  given John the Baptist. He is mentioned three  times in the Koran.  See also:   jerome, st.; salome; virgin mary;  zacharias  John the Bear   In European folktales, hero  who is the son of a bear. He is also called Juan  el Oso, Juan del Oso, and Ivanko the Bear’s Son  in various European folktales.  John the Evangelist, St.   (Yahweh is gracious)  (first century)   Evangelist and Apostle, cred -  ited with the authorship of the Gospel that  bears his name and three short general epistles  in the New Testament. Christian tradition also  credits John with the authorship of the Book of  Revelation. Feast, 27 December.  John was the son of Zebedee, a Galilean  fisherman, and the brother of James. Their  mother, Salome (not to be confused with the  woman who danced for the head of John the  Baptist), might have been the sister of the  Virgin Mary. John was one of the first disciples  called by Jesus. Both John and his brother  James were called “sons of thunder” or “sons  of anger” by Jesus.  From earliest Christian times John has been  identified as the “beloved disciple” named in  the Gospel. He was present at the Last Supper,  where he leaned his head on Jesus’ breast. He  stood at the cross when Jesus was crucified, and  St. John the Evangelist  536   John the Bear

=== 페이지 554 ===
he was the first disciple to reach the tomb on  Easter Day.  According to Christian legend, after the  death of the Virgin Mary, who had been placed  in his care by Jesus when he was on the cross,  John preached in Judea with St. Peter. He then  traveled to Asia Minor, where he founded the  Seven Churches and remained principally at  Ephesus. During the persecution of the Chris -  tians under the Roman emperor Domitian he  was sent in chains to Rome and cast into a cal -  dron of boiling oil. He was miraculously pre -  served and “came out of it as out of a refreshing  bath.” He was then accused of being a magician  and exiled to Patmos in the Aegean, where he  wrote the Book of Revelation.  Another legend says that while John was  in Rome an attempt was made on his life. A  poisoned chalice was given him, but before he  could drink, a serpent appeared in the cup, and  the hired killer who had poisoned the cup fell  down dead at the saint’s feet.  In a variant of the tale, the poisoned cup was  administered by order of the emperor Domi -  tian. In still another variant, Aristodemus, the  high priest of the goddess Diana at Ephesus,  defied John to drink from a poisoned cup. John  did, and Aristodemus fell dead at his feet.  John is the only Apostle who, according to  legend, did not die but fell asleep waiting for  the Second Coming of Christ.  See also:   apostle; diana; peter, st.; virgin  mary  Jok   (creator)   In African mythology (Alur of  Uganda and Congo), creator and rain god who  presides over birth as Jok Odudu. Offerings of  black goats are made to the god for rainfall.  The Alur view the world as full of spirits and  believe that their ancestors manifest themselves  in the form of snakes or large rocks.  Jonah   (dove)   In the Bible, one of the Minor  Prophets   and   title   of   a   book   of   the   Old  Testament. Instructed by Yahweh, the Hebrew  god, to preach repentance to the great but  wicked city of Nineveh, the Hebrew prophet  Jonah fled in a ship bound for the Phoenician  city of Tarsish. When a storm arose, the sailors  cast lots to see who was responsible for their  trouble. The lot fell on Jonah, who confessed  that Yahweh was displeased with him. Thrown  overboard, Jonah was swallowed by “a great  fish” (later folklore and the New Testament  turn it into a whale) in which he stayed for  three   days   before   he   was   vomited   out   on  dry land. Jonah then went to Nineveh and  convinced its king and people that they must  repent or be destroyed within 40 days. Yahweh  saved the city, but Jonah was angry. Outside the  city he built himself a shelter for shade. Yahweh  made a gourd grow up to give Jonah additional  protection from the burning sun, but at night  Yahweh made a worm destroy the plant. Jonah  was sorry for the gourd, and Yahweh taught  Jonah a lesson, saying: “Thou hast had pity on  the gourd, for which thou hast not laboured,  neither madest it to grow; which came up in  a night, and perished in a night: And should  not I spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein  are more than sixscore thousand persons that  cannot discern between their right hand and  their left hand; and also much cattle?” (Jon.  4:10–11).  Christian writers saw the tale of Jonah as  foreshadowing certain incidents in the life of  Christ. Matthew’s Gospel has Jesus say: “For as  Jonas [N.T. spelling] was three days and three  nights in the whale’s body; so shall the Son of  Man be three days and three nights in the heart  of the earth [tomb] (Matt. 12:40). Jonah is a  symbol of the Resurrection, and he frequently  appears in early Christian art.  See also:   yahweh  Jonathan   (Yahweh has given)   In the Bible,  O.T.   (1   and   2   Samuel),   the   oldest   son   of  King Saul and male companion to David. He  took David’s side when David disputed with  Jonathan’s father, King Saul. When Jonathan  and Saul were killed, David lamented his death,  saying: “The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy  Jonathan   53 

=== 페이지 555 ===
high places: now are the mighty fallen!   .   .   . I am  distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: very  pleasant hast thou been unto me: thy love to me  was wonderful, passing the love of women” (2  Sam. 1:19, 26). The relationship between David  and Jonathan is one of the strongest examples of  male bonding in ancient Near Eastern legends,  its only rival being Gilgamesh and Enkidu.  See also:   david; enkidu; gilgamesh; saul  Jonathan   Moulton   In   American   New  England folklore, a general who sold his soul  to the devil in return for a gold coin placed  in his boots once a month. He is sometimes  referred to as the “New Hampshire Faust”  or the “Yankee Faust.” Once he put his boots  on top of a chimney, and the devil started  to drop down the gold coins. Since he had  removed the bottom soles, the devil had to fill  up the whole fireplace and chimney, but that  night the house burned to the ground and no  gold   was   found.   At   his   death   his   friends  opened   Moulton’s   coffin   to   see   if   he   had  taken   the   gold   with   him,   but   they   found  nothing.  See also:   faust  The Pact between David and Jonathan   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  53    Jonathan Moulton

=== 페이지 556 ===
Jones,   John   Paul   (1747–1792)   In   Am-  erican history and folklore of the Revolution,  naval hero. Given command of the   Bon Homme  Richard   and two other vessels, Jones attacked  two British envoy ships,   Serapis   and   Countess of  Scarborough.   During the battle Jones was asked  by the British commander, “Have you struck?”  According to legend, he replied, “Sir, I have  not yet begun to fight.” After an intense naval  battle the   Serapis   surrendered.  Jones’s earliest biographer, Alexander S.  Mackenzie, writing in 1841, said: “No hero  ever sounded his own trumpet more unremit -  tingly or with a louder blast.” Jones wrote his  Memoirs   and appears in numerous American  novels,   such   as   James   Fenimore   Cooper’s  The   Pilot,   Herman   Melville’s   Israel   Potter,  and Winston Churchill’s   Richard Carvel.   Hol -  lywood took up the hero in   John Paul Jones  (1959),   starring   Robert   Stack   as   the   naval  hero and Bette Davis as Catherine the Great  of Russia.  Jord   (Jordh, Fyorgyn, Hloldyn, Iord) (earth)  In Norse mythology, primeval earth goddess,  perhaps a giantess in the beginning; first wife  of Odin; mother of the god Thor. A kenning  for Thor is the “son of Jord.” She was the  daughter of Nott (night) and a dwarf. Jord was  worshipped on high mountains. In Germanic  mythology and in Richard Wagner’s   Der Ring  des Nibelungen   she is called Erda.  See also:   kenning; nott;   ring des nibelun -  gen, der ; thor  Jorkemo   (Yurkemi,   Yorkami)   (may   Yahu  establish?)   In Jewish folklore, angel of hail.  In the Old Testament the Book of Daniel tells  how King Nebuchadnezzar placed Shadrach,  Meshach, and Abednego in a furnace for not  worshipping his god. When the king looked  into the furnace, he saw the three men and  a fourth “like the Son of God” (Dan. 3:25).  The three men were left unharmed by the  flames. Jewish folklore identifies the fourth  as Jorkemo. The angel wanted to quench the  flames but lacked the power, so he asked the  archangel Gabriel to cool the flames.  See also:   gabriel; nebuchadnezzar  Joro Kumo   (courtesan spider)   In Japanese  folklore, a ghost resembling a spider woman,  who lures men to their death.  Joseph   (may he add, i.e., Yahweh)   In the  Bible, O.T. (Gen. 37–50), hero, 11th son of  Jacob and Rachel; brother of Benjamin, who  brought the Hebrews to Egypt.  When Joseph was 17 years old, he took care  of his father’s sheep and goats with his half  brothers, sons of the concubines Bilhah and  Zilpah. Jacob loved Joseph more than any of  his other sons because Joseph was born to him  in his old age. Jacob had made for Joseph a  robe with long sleeves (inaccurately translated  in the King James Version as a coat of many  colors). When Joseph’s brothers saw his robe,  they grew to hate him. He would tell them his  dreams, which indicated that he would rule  over them. One day while the brothers were  at Dothan, they decided to kill Joseph. “Here  comes that dreamer. Come on now, let’s kill  him and throw his body into one of the dry  wells. We can say that a wild animal killed him.  Then we will see what becomes of his dreams”  (Gen. 37:19–20, Today’s English Version). But  Reuben heard them and tried to save Joseph,  saying they should not kill him but just throw  him in a dry well. He planned to come back and  save Joseph. But Judah instead persuaded his  brothers to sell Joseph to a group of Ishmael -  ites or Midianites (the sources vary in the bibli -  cal text). This they did and then told Jacob that  Joseph had been killed by a wild animal. The  boy was sold in Egypt to Potiphar, one of the  pharaoh’s officers, who was captain of the pal -  ace guard. Joseph prospered with Potiphar, who  trusted him with all of his affairs. “Joseph was  well built and good looking, and after awhile  his master’s wife began to desire Joseph and  asked him to go to bed with her” (Gen. 39:7–7,  Today’s English Version). Joseph refused her  Joseph   53 

=== 페이지 557 ===
sexual advances, Potiphar’s wife accused him  of attempted rape, and Joseph was cast into  prison. There he interpreted the dreams of  two   prisoners;   one   was   the   pharaoh’s   chief  baker and the other his wine steward. Joseph  told the wine steward he would be free in three  days but that the baker would be executed.  It happened just as Joseph had predicted, so  when the pharaoh had a dream that none of the  Egyptian magicians could interpret, the wine  steward told him of Joseph the Hebrew who  could interpret dreams. Joseph was brought to  the court and interpreted the pharaoh’s dream  as signifying that there would be seven years of  plentiful harvest, then seven years of famine.  When he heard this, Pharaoh appointed Joseph  to take charge of stockpiling grain. Joseph was  then   called   Zaphenath   Paneah   (revealer   of  secrets). After the seven years of plenty, the  famine was so severe that Joseph’s brothers  went down to Egypt to get grain so that they  would not starve. When Joseph saw them he  recognized them, but they did not know him.  He put them through various tests to see if they  had learned any compassion since the time they  attempted to kill him. When he realized they  were sorry for what they had done and showed  love for Benjamin and Jacob, he revealed him -  self to them. He then had his father, Jacob, and  all of his family settle in Goshen. Before Jacob  died, Joseph asked him to bless Joseph’s two  sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, by Asenath, the  daughter of Potiphera, a priest of Heliopolis.  Jacob blessed Ephraim, the younger son, but  not Manasseh, the older. When Joseph died,  he was embalmed and buried in Egypt. At the  Exodus his body was taken by the Hebrews.  Thomas Mann’s novel   Joseph and His Broth -  ers   deals with the legend. Rembrandt’s   Joseph  and Potiphar’s Wife   portrays one episode from  the legend, and Handel’s oratorio   Joseph and  His Brothers   deals with the legend.  See   also:   asenath;   benjamin;   ishmael;  jacob; manastiphera  Joseph sold into slavery in Egypt  540   Joseph

=== 페이지 558 ===
Joseph,   St.   (may   he   add)   (first   century)  In the Bible, N.T., husband of the Virgin  Mary.   Patron   of   carpenters,   confectioners,  the   dying,   engineers,   the   family,   married  couples, house hunters, pioneers, and travel -  ers. Invoked in doubt and hesitation. Feast,  19 March.  Little is said of Joseph in the New Testa -  ment. He was of the House of David and  accepted Jesus as his son when the angel told  him “that which is conceived in her womb is  of the Holy Ghost” (Matt. 1:20). Joseph died  before Jesus began his public ministry.  During the Middle Ages St. Joseph was  often   referred   to   as   a   cuckold   by   Chris -  tians, who neglected his cult in favor of his  wife, Mary. But in the 16th century his cult  spread throughout the Roman church. Accord -  ing to medieval beliefs, St. Joseph’s girdle was  kept at Notre Dame, Joinville sur Marne, in  the diocese of Langres. His walking stick was  preserved in the Monastery of Angels in Flor -  ence and another stick and his hammer in the  Church of St. Anastasia in Rome. The cloak  with which St. Joseph covered Jesus in the  stable also was preserved in the church.  Joseph Interprets Pharaoh’s Dreams   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Joseph, St.   54 

=== 페이지 559 ===
Joseph of Arimathea   (may he add)   (first  century)   In the Bible, N.T., the man who  begged for the body of Jesus and laid it in his  own tomb (Matt. 27:57–60). Medieval legend  says he was imprisoned for years and kept alive  by the Holy Grail, the cup Christ used at the  Last Supper. He later brought the Holy Grail  to Glastonbury in England.  See also:   holy grail  Joshua   (Yahweh is salvation)   In the Bible,  O.T., successor of Moses and a leader of the  Israelites during the Exodus and the settle -  ment of Canaan. Joshua was the son of Nun  and Ephraimite and was appointed by Moses  as his successor. Three days after Moses’ death,  Joshua got ready for the invasion of Canaan.  He sent out spies and moved camp up to the  river Jordan. In one assault after another, he  reduced the fortified towns on the opposite  banks, the most famous being Jericho. Joshua  under the guidance of Yahweh, the Hebrew  Joshua at Jericho  542   Joseph of Arimathea  St. Joseph with the Child

=== 페이지 560 ===
god, marched his army around the walls for six  days bearing the Ark of the Covenant (which  some scholars believe contained a fetish or  Hebrew snake god). On the seventh day they  circled seven times; the priests blew their trum -  pets, and Joshua ordered the people to shout.  As the shouts went up, the walls of Jericho  fell down, and the Israelites conquered the  city (Josh. 6:1–25). In another battle, Joshua  ordered the sun to stand still so that his ene -  mies could not escape at night (Josh. 10:13).  Most of his legend is told in the Book of Joshua  in the Old Testament. In Islam Joshua is called  Yusha, though he is not named directly in the  Koran.  Joshua appears in Dante’s   The Divine Com -  edy   (Purgatory, canto 20; Paradise, cantos 9,  18).   Handel’s   oratorio   Joshua   and   the   folk  song   Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho   tell of how  God guided the Hebrews to victory over their  enemies.  See   also:   ark of the covenant; moses;  yahweh  Jotunheim   (Jotunnheim, Jotunheimr) (home  of the giants)   In Norse mythology, the land  of   the   frost   giants,   located   under   one   of  the tree roots of the cosmic or world tree,  Yggdrasill, in the far northwest where the  ocean joined the world’s edge. Its capital was  Utgard (outer place).  See also:   utgard; yggdrasill  Jotunn   (devourers)   In Norse mythology, the  giants who ruled before the Aesir gods, such  as Odin; among them were the Hrimthursar  (frost giants). Most of them were violent and  wicked. They had heads of stone and feet of  ice. Often they could transform themselves  into eagles or wolves. Among the most famous  were Kari (tempest) and his three sons: Beli  (storm); Thiassi (ice), with his daughter, Skadi  (winter); and Thrym (frost). Others were Johul  (glacier), Frosti (cold), Snoer (snow), and Orifta  (snowdrift). The god Thor married a giantess,  Iarnsafa (ironstone), who bore him two sons,  Magni (strength) and Modi (courage). It was  believed that a battle between the gods and  frost giants would bring about Ragnarok, the  destruction of the world, and then its renewal.  See also:   aesir; ragnarok  Joukahainen   (Youkahainen)   (genius   of   ice  and snow?)   In the Finnish epic poem   The  Kalevala,   an evil youth who entered into a con -  test with Vainamoinen and was defeated.  Hearing that the culture hero Vainamoinen  was noted for his magic songs, Joukahainen,  against his parents’ wishes, challenged him to a  singing contest. They questioned one another,  asking who was present at the creation of the  world. Joukahainen answered that he had been.  Vainamoinen replied that Joukahainen was a  liar. This so enraged the youth that he chal -  lenged Vainamoinen to a fight, but the culture  hero sang magic songs that made Joukahainen  sink into a swamp. Fearing he would die, Jou -  kahainen offered Vainamoinen his sister Aino  as a wife, and the hero released him.  Joukahainen   returned   home   to   his   farm  angry, telling Joukola, his mother, what had  happened, but she was pleased that her daugh -  ter   was   to   wed   Vainamoinen.   Joukahainen,  however, continued to nurture a hatred against  Vainamoinen. Once he lay in wait for him  on   his   journey   to   Pohjola,   the   Northland,  and shot at him, killing Vainamoinen’s horse.  Vainamoinen fell into the water and was driven  out to sea by a tempest. Joukahainen rejoiced,  thinking he at last had overcome Vainamoinen.  However, the culture hero was not destroyed.  Joukahainen is often called Jouko, a short -  ened form of his name.  See   also:   ainoi;   kalevala,   the ;   vain -  amoinen  Jove   (sky, in the open air)   In Roman mythol -  ogy, ancient Italian god identified with the  Greek god Zeus; called Jupiter by the Romans,  Jove is an Anglicized version of one the Latin  forms of Jupiter’s name.  See also:   jupiter; zeus  Jove   543

=== 페이지 561 ===
Juan Chi   (275–210   b.c.e. )   In Chinese leg -  end,   one   of   the   seven   Chu-lin   Ch’i-Hsien  (Seven Immortals). He is depicted with a boy  attendant and his nephew, Juan Hsien, with  fan and staff. In Japanese legend he is called  Genshiki.  See also:   chu-lin ch’i-hsien  Judas   Iscariot   (Judas,   man   from   Kerloth)  (first century)   In the Bible, N.T., one of the  Twelve Apostles, who betrayed Jesus to the chief  priests in exchange for 30 pieces of silver.  Nothing   is   said   in   the   New   Testament  regarding the calling of Judas to be one of Jesus’  Twelve Apostles, nor is anything known of his  early life. Judas was the Apostles’ treasurer and  handled the moneybag (John 13:29). When at  the Last Supper Jesus announced that one of  the Twelve would betray him, all asked, “Is it  I?” The motivation for Judas’s betrayal may  have been more than greed for the 30 pieces  of silver. He may have borne a grudge against  Jesus after Jesus rebuked him for his criticism  of Mary’s (the sister of Lazarus) extravagance  in using expensive oil from the alabaster box to  anoint Jesus. Judas had complained that the oil  could be sold and the money used to help the  poor. St. John’s Gospel (12:6) says of Judas’s  Judas Hangs Himself   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  544   Juan Chi

=== 페이지 562 ===
complaint, “This he said, not that he cared for  the poor; but because he was a thief, and had  the [money]bag, and bare [carried] what was  put therein.”  To fulfill his pact with the high priests  Judas kissed Jesus in the garden as a signal to  the soldiers to arrest Jesus (Mark 14:43–45).  Shakespeare says: “So Judas kissed his Master,  and cried, ‘all hail!’ whenas he meant   all harm ”  ( Henry VI,   III, V, vii). After the arrest the trai -  tor Judas tried to give back the blood money  (Matt. 27:3–4), but it was refused by the priests,  who mocked him saying, “What is that to us?”  Judas then went to the Temple area and threw  the silver on the floor and later hanged himself  (Matt. 27:5). The Acts of the Apostles (1:18),  however, gives a different account of Judas’s  death, saying “this man purchased a field with  the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he  burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels  gushed   out.”   According   to   Christian   tradi -  tion the “bursting asunder” was considered a  special judgment, in order that his soul should  escape from his bowels and not be breathed  out through his lips since they had betrayed  Jesus with a kiss. In Islamic legend it is believed  that   Judas   was   crucified   in   the   manner   of  Christ while Christ was rising to heaven. Judas  appears always as the archbetrayer. Dante’s   The  Divine Comedy   (Inferno) has the traitor chewed  in the mouth of Satan.  See also:   apostle; cain and abel; john the  evangelist, st.; lazarus  Jude Thaddeus and Simon Zealot, Sts.  (praise and snub-nosed)   (first century)   In the  Bible, N.T., Apostles. Jude is the traditional  author of the epistle that bears his name in the  New Testament. He is invoked in desperate  situations. Feast for both, 28 October.  Jude may have been one of the brethren  (Mark 6:3) of Jesus, being either the son of  Mary   and   Joseph   (one   tradition   held   that  Jesus had brothers and sisters) or the son of  Joseph by a former marriage (another tradi -  tion, invoked to protect the virginity of Mary).  Both Jude and Simon, according to tradition,  preached the Gospel in Syria and Mesopotamia  and were martyred in Persia. Jude was said to  have been killed by a halberd (his symbol), and  Simon was sawn asunder.  See also:   apostle  Judgment   of   Paris   In Greek mythology,  one of the principal myths regarding the origin  of the Trojan War. The Judgment involved  Paris in a dispute among the goddesses Hera,  Athena, and Aphrodite. When Eris, goddess of  discord, was not invited to the wedding ban -  quet of Peleus and Thetis, she threw a golden  apple marked, “for the fairest” into the gather -  ing. Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite all competed  for the apple, and each asked Zeus to award  her the prize. To avoid making the choice,  Zeus told the three goddesses to go to Mount  Ida, where a handsome youth, Paris, was tend -  ing sheep. They were to ask him to make  the judgment. (Paris had become a shepherd  because his father, King Priam of Troy, had  been warned that the lad would bring disaster  upon Troy.) Each of the three goddesses sought  Paris’s favor. Hera offered him power, Athena  offered wisdom, and Aphrodite promised him  the most beautiful woman in the world, Helen.  He chose Helen, and Aphrodite sent Paris to  Sparta, where he seduced Helen, wife of King  Menelaus, and fled with her to Troy. Menelaus  followed with a host of Greeks under the com -  mand of Agamemnon, Menelaus’s brother, and  the Trojan War began.  The myth has been frequently retold and  painted. The Judgment of Paris is either retold  or cited in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1); Ovid’s  Heroides,   which gives an elaborate description;  Lucian, who made the apple golden and magic;  the medieval retelling,   The Tale of Troy ; and  Tennyson’s   Dream of Four Women   and   Oenone.  The subject was painted by, among others,  Cranach, Rubens, Watteau, Renoir, and Dali.  See also:   agamemnon; aphrodite; athena;  helen of troy; hera; peleus; thesis; troy;  priam  Judgment of Paris   545

=== 페이지 563 ===
Judith   (Jewess)   In the Bible, Apocrypha, a  heroine who helps save her city of Bethulia  by cutting off the head of Holofernes, gen -  eral   of   the   Assyrian   king   Nebuchadnezzar.  Judith was a young and beautiful widow of  Manasseh   and   strictly   followed   the   Mosaic  law. Her city, Bethulia, had its water supply  cut off by Holofernes, who wished to destroy  the Jews for not aiding his king in the war  against Arphaxad, king of the Medes. When  the people began to despair and were ready to  surrender, Judith told their chief priest, Ozias,  that she would deliver the city. Putting off her  widow’s garments, she went with her maid to  the enemy camp, pretending to have deserted  her people. As she had planned, Holofernes  fell in love with her and gave a feast in her  honor. Holofernes got very drunk at the feast,  and when he at last got Judith alone, think -  ing he was going to sleep with her, she cut  off his head with two blows of a sword. She  wrapped his head in a bag and left with her  maid, pretending to go out to pray. When she  returned to her city, she stood on its walls and  showed the decapitated head of Holofernes to  his army, which fled in terror. She then sang a  hymn of praise to the Lord for delivering her  people. In the Roman Catholic breviary her  song is a hymn to be sung at Lauds.  Judith’s tale inspired numerous paintings,  such as those by Matteo di Giovanni and Paolo  Veronese   (c.   1528–1588).   Racine’s   Judith,  Friedrich   Hebbel’s   Judith,   and   Jean   Girau -  doux’s   Judith   all use the legend, as do Vivaldi  and Mozart in oratorios, both titled   Bethulia  Liberata.  See also:   manasseh; nebuchadnezzar  Juggernaut   (Jagganth, Jagan-natha, Jagan-  nath)   (lord   of   the   world)   In   Hinduism,   a  sacred image of Krishna, an incarnation of the  god Vishnu.  When Krishna was accidentally killed by  the hunter Jaras (old age), his body was left  to rot under a tree. Some people found the  bones and placed them in a box. Vishnu then  appeared to Indra-dyumna, a holy king, and  told him to make an image of Krishna called  Juggernaut and to place the bones of Krishna  inside. Viswakarma, the architect of the gods,  undertook the commission on the condition  that he be left undisturbed till the work was  completed. After 15 days the king was impa -  tient and went to Viswakarma to see how the  work was progressing. Viswakarma was angry  and left the statue unfinished—it had no hands  or feet, only stumps. Indra-dyumna prayed to  the god Brahma, who promised the king to  make the image of the Juggernaut one of the  most sacred in the world. Brahma gave the  image eyes and a soul and acted as high priest  at its consecration.  There   is,   however,   a   variant   account   of  the origin of the image. A Brahman was once  sent to look for a site for a new temple. The  Brahman wandered about for many days. He  then saw a crow dive into the water. The bird  honored the water as if it were some god, and  the Brahman chose the site as the one near  Judith giving the head of Holofernes  to her servant  546   Judith

=== 페이지 564 ===
which the temple should be erected. While  the temple was being constructed, King Indra-  dyumna was told in a dream: “On a certain day  cast thine eyes on the seashore, when there will  arise from the water a piece of wood 52 inches  long and 18 inches broad; this is the true form  of the deity; take it up and keep it hidden in  thine house for seven days, and in whatever  shape it shall then appear, place it in the temple  and worship it.”  The image of Juggernaut is located at Puri,  a town in the Orissa state of northeast India on  the Bay of Bengal. Each summer the images  of Juggernaut and his brother and sister are  carried on a large cart, dragged by pilgrims  to their summer home. Though some wor -  shippers have thrown themselves under the  cart, this act is not part of the cult, though  it   has   supplied   the   English   language   with  the term   juggernaut   for “customs, institutions,  etc., beneath which people are ruthlessly and  unnecessarily crushed.”  See   also:   brahma;   brahman;   krishna;  vishnu  Julana   In   Australian   mythology,   son   of  Njirana among the Jumu in western Australia,  who is in constant pursuit of women with his  gigantic penis.  Julian Hospitaller, St.   (descended from Jove)  In Christian legend, patron of boatmen, fer -  rymen, innkeepers, musicians, travelers, and  wandering singers. Feast, 12 February.  Julian’s life is found in   The Golden Legend,   a  13th-century book of the lives of the saints by  Jacobus de Voragine. There is no factual infor -  mation on the saint aside from the legend.  Julian was a young man who while hunting  came upon a stag that told him he would kill  his parents. Horrified at the news, Julian fled  to another kingdom, where he became a knight  and was given a rich widow as his wife. Mean -  while his parents searched for their son. One  day they came to the castle where Julian lived  and were received by Julian’s wife. When they  told their story, she knew that Julian was their  son and offered them her own bed to rest the  night. When Julian returned to his wife’s bed,  he saw two figures asleep beneath the blankets.  Without a word he drew his sword and killed  the couple. Discovering his evil deed, Julian  and his wife fled. They lived for years near  a shore and ferried people across. One night  Julian ferried an aged leper who was so ill that  Julian took him home and put him in his own  bed. In the morning the leper revealed himself  as an angel, saying God had forgiven Julian’s  murder of his parents.  The   legend   is   illustrated   in   a   series   of  stained-glass   windows   in   the   cathedral   of  Rouen, presented to the church by some boat -  men. Flaubert wrote   The Legend of St. Julian the  Hospitaller   based on the windows.  See also:   golden legend, the  Jumala   (god)   In Finnish mythology, a semi -  abstract term for the supreme being, mother  of all things. The oak tree is her symbol. She  bears similarity to Mother Earth, but she is  greater. In some areas Jumala is a male deity.  Jumala was sometimes called Kuoja (creator).  He was later replaced by Ukko, the Finnish  sky god.  See also:   ukko  juniper   An evergreen shrub. In European  folklore, the juniper was regarded as a life-giv -  ing tree, as reflected in the   Tale of the Juniper  Tree   by the Grimm brothers. The juniper berry  is used in folk medicine in America as well as  in Germany. The Hopi Indians used the boiled  greens of the juniper to relieve sore throat,  sour stomach, earache, and constipation. The  berries were used to cure snakebite, plague,  rheumatism, and venereal disease.  See also:   almond  Juno   (youth)   In Roman mythology, ancient  Italian goddess, sister and wife of Jove (Jupiter).  The Roman goddess, like her Greek counter -  part, Hera, was the queen of heaven, Regina.  Juno   54 

=== 페이지 565 ===
As such, she was supreme among all of the  goddesses and watched over women and mar -  riage. Juno differs from Hera in that she is  closely connected with the moon. The Calends  were sacred to Juno Lucina, or Lucretia (god -  dess of childbirth), as the Ides were sacred to  her husband, Jupiter. Every woman had her  own protecting   juno   whom she worshipped on  her birthday, just as every man had his   genius.  As Pronuba Juno, she presided over betrothal.  Juno Juga yoked together the husband and wife  in marriage. Juno Domiduea was worshipped as  the couple was escorted to their new home, and  its doorposts were anointed in honor of Juno  Unixia. The most important festival of married  women was the Matronalia, celebrated on 1  March, both at the temple of Juno Lucina and  in the home. It was Juno Lucina, as well as Juno  Sospita (Juno the savior), who watched over  childbirth, protecting mother and child from  harm. Juno’s main temple was at the Capitol in  Rome, close to the temple of Jupiter. In it were  kept geese, animals sacred to her because they  were prolific and domestic. There was also a  temple on the Capitol dedicated to Juno Moneta  (warner, admonisher; the admonisher or god -  dess of money). The use of symbolic money  was sanctioned by the goddess and the temple  of Juno Moneta was an early mint. The epithet  Moneta, however, derives from the legend that  the citadel was once saved against a secret assault  by warning honks from Juno’s sacred geese. One  of her other feasts, celebrated on 7 July, was  the Caprotina. Female slaves took part in the  Caprotina, reenacting the legend that they once  helped save the Romans from defeat.  Most references in English use Juno not  only for the Roman goddess but for her Greek  counterpart, Hera. Juno appears in or is cited  in Shakespeare’s   Cymbeline   (5.4.32) as wife, in  Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (1.4.17) as Queen of  Heaven, and in Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (9.18) as  a war goddess.  See also:   genius; hera; jove; lucretia  Juno and the Peacock   Aesopic fable found  in various European collections.  A peacock once placed a petition before the  goddess Juno asking for the voice of a nightin -  gale. Juno refused his request; when the bird  persisted and said that he was the goddess’s  favorite bird, she replied: “Be content with  your lot.”  Moral:   One cannot be first in everything.  Juno  54    Juno and the Peacock

=== 페이지 566 ===
Sean O’Casey’s play   Juno and the Paycock   has  the antihero, Jack Boyle, called Captain Jack,  portrayed as a strutting “paycock.” His wife,  Juno,   however,   sees   through   her   husband’s  poses and defections.  See also:   aesopic fables; juno  The Peacock Complains to Juno   (Gustave Doré)  Juno and the Peacock   54 

=== 페이지 567 ===
Juok   In African mythology (Shilluk of the  Sudan), supreme god who divided the earth,  represented as two divine loaves sent from  heaven,   with   the   river   Nile.   His   helper   is  Nyikang, an ancient king who is the ancestor  of the Shilluk and invoked as intermediary  between them and Juok. Nyikang may repre -  sent the supreme deity of the earthly loaf.  Jurawadbad   In Australian mythology, snake  man, married to a woman who refused to have  sexual relations with him. In anger he turned  himself into a snake and hid inside a hollow  log. When his wife peered into the log, he bit  her and she died.  Jurupari   In mythology of the Uapes Indians  of Brazil, chief god, born of a virgin after she  drank some   cachari,   a native beer. His cult was  associated with male initiation rites from which  women were excluded. If by accident a woman  witnessed even a part of the rite, she was poi -  soned as a punishment.  Justa and Rufina, Sts.   (third century)   In  Christian   legend,   patron   saints   of   Seville,  Spain. Feast, 19 July.  The two girls sold earthenware in a shop.  One day a pagan woman came in to buy some  for use in the worship of Venus, the goddess of  love. Justa and Rufina refused to sell the goods,  so the woman started to wreck the shop. Soon a  crowd gathered and the two girls were accused  of being Christians. They were arrested, but  before they were taken, they destroyed a statue  to   Venus.   Both   were   condemned   to   death.  Justa was put on a rack and cooked. Rufina was  strangled to death.  See also:   venus  Justina of Antioch, St.   (just)   (Fourth cen-  tury)   In   Christian   legend,   virgin   martyr.  Feast, 26 September.  The saint’s life is told in   The Golden Legend,  a collection of saints’ lives written in the 13th  century by Jacobus de Voragine. Justina was  the daughter of a pagan priest. One day as she  sat at her window she heard the Gospel read  by Proculus, a deacon of the church. She was  so moved by his reading that she became a  Christian. At night her parents had a vision of  Jesus and his angels, and the next day they too  became Christians.  Justina, however, was loved by a pagan magi -  cian, Cyprian, who had dedicated himself to the  devil. He approached the girl with the devil, but  the fiend fled when Justina covered her whole  body with signs of the cross. Cyprian then  invoked another devil, but again his seduction  failed. Finally, he invoked the Prince of Demons,  who came to Justina’s chamber, pounced on her  bed, and embraced her. As Justina made the sign  of the cross, the demon melted away. Cyprian  realized   that   there   was   no   hope   of   seduc -  ing Justina and converted to Christianity. The  two were arrested for being Christians; Justina  was put in a boiling caldron, and Cyprian was  burned to death. Some accounts say they were  beheaded. St. Justina’s symbols are a unicorn for  virginity and a palm for martyrdom.  See also:   golden legend, the  Juventas   (youth)   In   Roman   mythology,  patron goddess of youth; mother of Alexiares  and Anticetus by Heracles; equivalent to the  Greek   goddess   Ganymede   (Hebe).   Juventas  was portrayed as a beautiful woman dressed in  variegated garments.  See also:   ganymede; heracles  550   Juok

=== 페이지 568 ===
6  55   Ka   (double)   In   Egyptian   mythology,   the  vital essence or abstract personality of a per -  son. The   ka   was free to move from place to  place and could separate itself from or unite  itself to the body at will. The preserving of a  dead man’s   ka   was necessary if his body was to  become everlasting. Funeral offerings, includ -  ing meats, cakes, wines, and unguents, were  made to a person’s   ka,   and when food was not  available, offerings were painted on the walls  and were accompanied by specific prayers. In  early Egypt tombs had special chambers where  the   ka   was worshipped and received its offer -  ings. The priesthood included a group called  “priests of ka,” who performed services in its  honor. The   ka   is closely associated with the  ba,   the soul; the   ib,   the heart; the   khaibit,   the  shadow of a man, and the   khat,   the whole body  of a person.  See also:   ba  Kaaba   (Ka’ba,   Kaabeh,   Caaba)   (cube)   In  Islam, a cube-shaped shrine located at Mecca.  It contains Al-hajar al-aswad, the Black Stone,  which may be a meteorite. The stone was  located   in   the   shrine   before   Muhammad  destroyed the idols there when he captured the  city. An Arabic historian recorded the worship  of a four-sided stone, called allat or alilat, in  the Assyrio-Bablylonian kingdom of Nabataea.  The pagan Arabs used to worship the Black  Stone, and Muhammad accommodated them  by making it part of the sacred site.  According to some Islamic legends, the site  was chosen because of its connection with the  prophet Abraham. Abraham was led to Arabia  by a stormy wind sent by Allah. The storm was  in the shape of two heads (in one account, it  had the head of a snake). Allah told Abraham  to build a shrine at a site to which the storm  would direct him. When the wind reached the  site of the Kaaba, it wound itself around and  said: “Build on me.”  When Abraham was constructing the build -  ing, he stood on one of its stones, and his  footprint,   Makam Ibrahim,   is shown to pilgrims  to this day. The Black Stone in the shrine was  once white but, according to Islamic legend,  turned black because of the sins of man. It had  been brought to the shrine by the archangel  Gabriel.  In another, entirely different Islamic legend  regarding the foundation of the Kaaba, it was  Adam,   not   Abraham,   who   was   responsible.  After the Fall Adam went to Mecca. The arch -  angel Gabriel with his massive wings uncovered  K

=== 페이지 569 ===
a foundation. Angels then threw blocks on it  from various places until the ground was level.  Allah sent from paradise a tent of red jacinth in  which Adam was to live. The tent, which was  an angel, later became the Black Stone. When  Adam made a covenant with men, they signed  it on paper, and it was fed to the Black Stone,  which ate it up. At the end of the world the  Black Stone will sprout a tongue and name all  of the good men and all of the sinners.  The Black Stone has been damaged several  times. In the 11th century a man was sent by al-  Hakim, Fatimid caliph in Egypt, to destroy it,  but he succeeded only in splintering it slightly.  The Black Stone is now in a silver casing about  10   feet   across.   The   practice   of   kissing   the  stone is inherited from pagan times, although  Muslims deny that any worship is paid to the  stone.  See   also:   abraham; allah; archangel;  gabriel; muhammad  Kabandha   In Hindu mythology, an evil gob -  lin slain by Rama. Originally, Kabandha was a  good spirit or Gandharva, in the service of the  storm god Indra. One day, however, Indra cast  a thunderbolt at Kabandha, driving his head  and thighs into his body. Kabandha was then  “covered with hair, vast as a mountain, with -  out head or neck, having a mouth armed with  immense teeth in the middle of his belly, arms  a league long, and one enormous eye in his  breast.” In his new form Kabandha became an  evil goblin who fought against the hero Rama.  When Rama defeated Kabandha the goblin  asked the hero to have his body burned. When  this was done, Kabandha came out of the fire  restored to his original shape as a Gandharva  before Indra’s thunderbolt had struck him. He  then aided Rama in his war against the demon  king Ravana. Kabandha is sometimes called  Danu.  See also:   gandharva; indra; rama  Kacha   In   the   Hindu   epic   poem   The  Mahabharata,   a man who wanted the power  to restore the dead to life. Kacha studied with  the sage Sukra (Usanas), who had the power of  restoring the dead to life. Sukra, however, was  a priest in the service of demons and did not  wish to pass on his magic powers to Kacha. So  instead he killed his student. But each time he  was killed, Kacha was restored to life by Sukra,  who   repented.   The   third   time   Kacha   was  killed, the demons burned his body and mixed  the ashes with Sukra’s wine. When Devayani,  Sukra’s daughter, who loved Kacha, asked her  father to restore Kacha to life again, he per -  formed his magic feats but heard the voice of  Kacha coming from his own stomach. To save  his own life Sukra taught Kacha the charm. He  then allowed himself to be ripped open, and  Kacha, on coming out, performed the magic  rite and restored Sukra to life. Kacha, however,  was not in love with Devayani. She therefore  cursed   him,   saying   that   his   magic   charms  would have no power, and he in turn cursed  her, saying she would marry a member of a  lower caste instead of a priest.  See also:   mahabharata, the  Kachina   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy   (Hopi   and   other   Pueblo   Indians),   the  spiritual, inner form of reality manifested by  masked dancers. The term   kachina   is also used  for small painted wooden dolls. Kachinas may  be understood as spirits of the dead. Two kinds  of kachinas are recognized: Mon kachinas never  dance in groups, while ordinary kachinas do.  Kadaklan   In Philippine mythology, creator  god of the Tinguian Islands. Creator of the  earth, sun, moon, and stars, Kadaklan is mar -  ried   to   Agemem   and   has   two   sons,   Adam  and Balujen. His dog is Kimat, the lightning.  During a storm Kadaklan beats on his drum to  amuse himself.  Kae   In Polynesian mythology, an old wicked  priest who was killed and eaten. Tinirau, the  sea god, invited Kae to a special ceremony in  which his son was to be named. The priest was  552   Kabandha

=== 페이지 570 ===
fed a piece of meat from Tutunui, the pet whale  of Tinirau, who remained alive. Kae so liked the  taste of whale meat that he asked his host if he  might ride home on the whale’s back. Tinirau  agreed, saying Kae had to dismount the whale  when they reached shallow water or the animal  would die. Kae deliberately let the whale die,  took it home, and ate it. The winds carried the  scent of the whale meat back to Tinirau, who  sent 40 dancing girls to investigate the matter.  Kae, they were told, could be identified by his  large crooked teeth. The girls started to dance  and sing, causing the people to laugh. But Kae  kept his mouth shut so as not to reveal his large  teeth. Finally, however, he could not restrain  himself, and he laughed, revealing his large  teeth. Seeing him, the girls cast a spell over the  crowd. While Kae slept, they took him back  to Tinirau, who had him killed and eaten. The  natives say that is why there is cannibalism. In  a variant of the myth Kae is married to Hina, a  goddess, and their son rides the whale.  See also:   tinirau  Kakebotoke   In Japanese Buddhism, a round  copper or wooden plaque on which Buddhist  images are carved in relief.  Kakurezator   In Japanese folklore, an evil  spirit who carries the souls of sinners to hell.  He is portrayed as a blind old man with a knot -  ted staff.  Kala   (time)   In Hindu mythology, an epithet  applied to Yama, god of death, as well as to the  creator god, Brahma.  See also:   brahma; yama  Kalanemi   (rim   of   the   wheel   of   time)   In  Hindu mythology, an archdemon. Kalanemi  took the form of a holy hermit and offered  poisoned food to the monkey hero Hanuman.  Hanuman, however, refused the food. He went  instead to bathe at a nearby pond and was seized  by a crocodile. Hanuman dragged it out of the  water and killed it. From the crocodile’s body  arose a beautiful nymph who had earlier been  forced by a curse to live in the crocodile’s body  until Hanuman would free her. The nymph  told Hanuman that the holy hermit was the  archdemon Kalanemi in disguise. Hearing this,  Hanuman went back to Kalanemi, grabbed him  by the feet, and hurled him through the air  until he landed in Lanka (Sri Lanka) at the feet  of the demon king Ravana. Later Krishna (an  incarnation of the god Vishnu) killed Kalanemi,  but the demon became incarnate again in the  evil king Kamsa, the enemy of Krishna, and in  Kaliya, a demon snake.  See also:   hanuman; kaliya; krishna; rav -  ana; vishnu  Kalevala, The   (the land of heroes)   Finnish  epic poem compiled by Elias Lönnrot from  oral traditions in Karelia, now part of Russia.  The first edition contained 12,078 lines, the  second, 22,795.  The word   Kalevala   is derived from Kal -  eva, a mythical hero. Kaleva, however, never  appears in the epic poem, though his daughter  Kalvevatoar and his descendant Kalevalainen  are   mentioned.   The   Kalevala   consists   of   50  runes (poems or songs, sometimes called can -  tos; the term appended to each section varies  with different English translations) varying in  length but all in unrhymed alliterative trochaic  tetrameter. Here is an example from W. F.  Kirby’s translation, which also displays the use  of “echo” lines:  Vainamoinen, old and steadfast,  Now resolved upon a journey  To the cold and dreary regions  Of the gloomy land of Pohjola.  The use of a set verse form helps unify the  epic, since the sources, from diverse oral tradi -  tions, were various folksingers of different ages.  The Kalevala   is the only modern European epic  compiled from songs actually existing among  the people. Lönnrot visited the most remote  regions of the land and with skillful editing  Kalevala, The   553

=== 페이지 571 ===
produced the epic. He added a prologue of  approximately 100 lines as well as some con -  necting links to unify the epic.  The first part of the epic (runes 1–10) nar -  rates the birth and adventures of one of the  main characters in the poem, Vainamoinen,  the son of Luonnotar, daughter of the air.  Vainamoinen is a magician, perhaps derived  from a shaman in real life, who can work magic  through his songs. Shortly after his birth (in  the poem he is always portrayed as old) he was  challenged to a singing contest by the evil Lap -  lander Joukahainen. The challenge was taken  up, and Joukahainen was defeated and plunged  into a swamp. To save himself from drowning,  Joukahainen promised his sister Aino to Vain -  amoinen as his wife. Vainamoinen accepted the  offer, but Aino did not. She drowned herself to  avoid marrying the old culture hero. Not giv -  ing up, Vainamoinen went in pursuit of Aino in  the river, finding her in the form of a fish. Even  in this condition the girl refused and fled back  into the water. Vainamoinen then went to Poh -  jola, the Northland, in search of a wife. While  journeying there he was shot at by Joukahainen  but escaped with wounds. Vainamoinen reached  the land of Pohjola, ruled by the evil mistress  Louhi, who told Vainamoinen that she would  give him her daughter, the Maiden of Pohjola  (the girl’s name is never given in the poem), as a  wife if he could construct a magic sampo, a mill  that produced grain, salt, and money.  Unable to construct the sampo by his magic  songs alone, Vainamoinen called in the smith  Ilmarinen (another hero of the poem) to aid  him. Ilmarinen consented and produced the  magic sampo. As a result, Ilmarinen was given  the Maiden of Pohjola as a wife.  The next section of the epic (runes 11–15)  narrates the adventures of Lemminkainen, the  Don Juan figure in the epic poem. He mar -  ried Kyllikki but soon discovered that she was  unfaithful to him. He divorced her and went to  the land of Pohjola to find a new wife. On his  way Lemminkainen was murdered by Marka -  hattu, a partly blind cattle herder whom he  had insulted. However, the hero was restored  to   life   by   the   magic   spells   of   his   mother  (Lemminkainen’s mother remains nameless in  the poem).  The next main division (runes 16–25) tells  of the marriage of Ilmarinen to the Maiden  of Pohjola after performing a series of tasks  imposed on him by Louhi, the girl’s mother.  The next section (runes 26–30) tells of Lem -  minkainen’s coming to the wedding, to which  he had not been invited. He entered the castle  by force, insulted the guests, killed Louhi’s hus -  band, and fled to the island of Sarri. While on  the island he slept with all of the women while  their husbands were away. Lemminkainen fled  the island when the husbands returned. He  then set out for Pohjola with his companion-  in-arms Kurra (Tiera), but they were defeated  in their attempt to destroy the land.  The poem then takes on a tragic cast with  the tale of Kullervo (runes 31–36). Kullervo  is a tragic hero who raped his sister and then  committed suicide. Before he killed himself,  however, he murdered the Maiden of Poh -  jola. The next section (runes 37–49) tells how  Vainamoinen, Ilmarinen, and Lemminkainen  journeyed to Pohjola to steal the magic sampo.  In this adventure the sampo was lost in a lake.  A battle then ensued between Louhi’s men and  the three heroes, in which the final victory was  given to Vainamoinen.  The last rune (50) tells how Marjatta, simi -  lar to the Virgin Mary, bore a son who became  king of Karelia. Vainamoinen then departed  the land. The last rune displays a good deal  of   Christian   legendary   material,   which   also  is scattered throughout other sections of the  poem, though the epic as a whole is certainly  not Christian.  The Kalevala   had tremendous influence on  the national identity of the Finns, coming at a  time of political and cultural upheaval against  Russian domination. It appeared at one of the  high points of European Romanticism, when  each national group was seeking heroes in its  past history and legend. The two most influ -  554   Kalevala, The

=== 페이지 572 ===
ential Finnish artists who have been deeply  moved by the splendid epic are Jean Sibelius,  one of the major composers of the early part  of the twentieth century, and Akseli Gallen-  Kallela, a painter who illustrated many of the  scenes of the epic poem. The American poet  Longfellow read a German translation of the  poem that inspired the verse form of his   Song  of Hiawatha.   The American poet not only used  the   Kalevala   verse form but also recast some of  its episodes, such as the departure of Hiawatha,  modeled on the departure of Vainamoinen in  the Finnish work.  See   also:   aino; hiawatha; joukahainen;  kullervo; kurra; lönnrot, elias; ilmarinen;  lemminkainen; louhi; luonnotar; marjatta;  sampo; vainamoinen  Kalidasa   (Kali’s slave)   Hindu poet and dra -  matist of the fifth century. Numerous legends  surround the poet. According to one account,  Kalidasa was a Brahman’s son. At the age of six  months he was left an orphan and was adopted  by an ox driver. He grew up without any formal  education, but he was remarkably handsome  and had graceful manners. Once it happened  that the princess of Benares, who rejected one  suitor after another because they failed to reach  her standard as scholars and poets, rejected a  counselor of her father. The counselor planned  revenge. He took Kalidasa from the street and  gave him the garments of a rich man and a  retinue of learned doctors. He then introduced  him to the princess, after warning Kalidasa  that under no circumstances was he to speak.  The princess was struck with Kalidasa’s beauty  and moved by his silence, which she took to be  profound wisdom. She decided to marry him.  After the marriage she discovered the trick, but  Kalidasa begged her to forgive him. She told  her husband to pray to the goddess Kali (a form  of the goddess Devi) for wisdom.  The prayer was granted. Knowledge and  poetical power descended miraculously upon  Kalidasa, who in gratitude assumed the name  that means Kali’s slave. Feeling he owed this  happy change to his wife, he swore that he  would   treat   her   only   with   respect,   as   his  teacher, but without any familiarity (no sexual  intercourse). This only angered the princess.  She cursed Kalidasa, saying he would meet his  death at the hands of a woman. At a later date,  the legend continues, the curse was fulfilled.  A certain king had written half of a stanza of  verse. He offered a large sum of money to any  poet who could worthily complete it. Kalidasa  completed the stanza, but a woman whom he  loved discovered the lines, and greedy for the  reward herself, killed Kalidasa and passed off  the couplet as hers.  Kalidasa’s most important work is the drama  Shakuntala,   based on an episode of the Hindu  epic poem   The Mahabharata.  See   also:   brahman; devi;   mahabharata,  the  Kaliya   (black)   In Hindu mythology, a ser -  pent king subdued by Krishna, an incarnation  of the god Vishnu.  Kaliya lived in a pool that he poisoned  with venom from his five heads. All the sur -  rounding countryside was being destroyed by  his fire and smoke. One day the boy Krishna  went to the pool and was trapped by Kaliya in  his coils. Kaliya, however, could not hold the  boy, whose body miraculously expanded, caus -  ing the snake to lose his hold. Krishna then  performed a dance of death on the heads of the  serpent, causing blood to flow “copiously from  his mouths.” After this, Kaliya surrendered and  worshipped Krishna, who did not kill him but  merely sent him to another river to live. Kaliya  is an incarnation of the archdemon Kalanemi,  who had been earlier killed by Krishna.  See also:   kalanemi; krishna; vishnu  Kalki   (impure, sinful)   In Hindu mythology,  the last avatar of the god Vishnu, which has  not yet occurred. Vishnu is to appear at the  end of the world cycle seated on a white horse,  with drawn sword blazing like a comet, for the  final destruction of the wicked, the renewal of  Kalki   555

=== 페이지 573 ===
creation, and the restoration of purity. Gore  Vidal’s novel   Kalki   uses the Hindu myth.  See also:   avatar; vishnu  Kalmasha-pada   (spotted   feet)   In   Hindu  mythology, a king condemned to eat human  flesh.  One   day   King   Kalmasha-pada   went   out  to hunt and found two tigers. He killed one,  but as it died it turned into an evil spirit.  The other tiger disappeared, threatening ven -  geance. Kalmasha-pada returned to his palace  and celebrated a sacrifice, at which the sage  Vashishtha officiated. When the sacrifice was  over, Vashishtha went out, and the evil spirit  of the tiger assumed his form and told Kal -  masha-pada to serve the food. The evil spirit  then turned into a cook, preparing human flesh  and serving it to Vashishtha when he returned.  When the sage discovered that the flesh was  human, he cursed Kalmasha-pada, saying his  appetite should only be excited by similar food.  When Vashishtha discovered that it was not  Kalmasha-pada’s fault, however, he reduced the  sentence to 12 years. The angry king, in turn,  took water in his hands and was about to cast  it at Vashishtha, when Kalmasha-pada’s wife  dissuaded him. “Unwilling to cast the water on  the ground, lest it should wither up the grain,  and equally reluctant to throw it up into the  air, lest it should blast the clouds and dry up  their contents, he threw it on their own feet,”  and they were scalded by it, becoming spotted  black and white.  Kalumba   In African mythology (Luba of  Congo), creator god who attempted to stop  Death. One day Kalumba told a goat and dog  to watch the roadside because Death and Life  were going to pass by. Life was to be allowed to  pass, but Death was to be stopped. So the two  animals watched, but in a short time they began  to argue, and the goat left the dog alone. In no  time the dog fell asleep, and Death, covered in  a grasscloth and tied to a pole, as if for burial,  quietly passed by. Next day the goat returned  and stationed himself. Life then came by and  was attacked by the goat. That is how death  came into the world, according to the Luba  people.  See also:   imana  Kama   (Kandarpa) (desire)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, the god of love, whose wife is Rati (love  play). Kama is lord of the Apsaras, heavenly  nymphs. In Indian art he is portrayed armed  with a bow and arrow. The bow is of sugar cane,  the bowstring a line of bees, and each arrow is  tipped with a flower. Kama usually is shown as  young and handsome, riding on a parrot and  attended by the Apsaras. One of them carries  a banner displaying the Makara, a fantastic sea  animal, or a fish, on a red ground. From the  banner Kama is sometimes called Makara-ketu,  Kalki  556   Kalmasha-pada

=== 페이지 574 ===
and from the flowers, Pushpa-ketana. Other  epithets are Kusma-yudha (armed with flow -  ers), Pushpadhanus (whose bow is flowers),  Pushpa-sara (whose arrows are flowers), and  Madana (the maddener).  See also:   makara; rati  Kambel   In Melanesian mythology, a sky god.  According to the beliefs of the Keraki Papuans,  Kambel cut down a palm tree and heard sounds  issuing from it. Within the tree were people. At  night Kambel tried to catch hold of a shining  white object that moved upward from the palm  tree. It slipped away from him and became the  moon.  In another tale Kambel sent several lizards  out in search of fire. It was the smallest lizard  that succeeded in bringing it back. Kambel  cooked the pith of a palm over the fire, and by  casting it into the sky, he caused the clouds to  be created. It was said that these clouds caused  the sky to be pushed up, separating it from the  earth.  Kambel   is   mentioned   in   another   myth  involving the concept of incest. A man became  aware of an incestuous relationship occurring  between his wife and his son. The father killed  his son, and the boy’s dog reproached the man  for having committed such an awful act. Kam -  bel put the feather of a cassowary in the dog’s  mouth to prevent the mother from learning  how her son had died. Ever since that event  dogs have lost the power of speech.  See also:   oedipus  Kami   (above, superior?)   In Japanese Shinto  mythology, generic term for deities or spirits.  Everything, animate or inanimate, has a kami.  It is also used as an honorific title for all that  is held sacred, mysterious, powerful, and fear -  some, such as wind, thunder, sun, rivers, trees,  and rocks, as well as for qualities of growth,  fertility, and reproduction.  Kana   In   Polynesian   mythology,   Hawaiian  trickster, born in the form of a rope, raised by  his grandmother Uli. Once Kana went to res -  cue a girl who had been abducted and placed  on an island hill. Each time he stretched him -  self to reach the girl, the hill grew taller, mov -  ing the girl farther and farther away. He then  went to his grandmother Uli to eat because he  had grown very thin in stretching himself. Uli  fed Kana and told him that the island was really  a gigantic turtle whose stretching power lay in  its flippers. Kana returned to the island, broke  off the turtle flippers, and saved the girl.  See also:   trickster  Kananesky Amaiyehi   In North American  Indian mythology (Cherokee), the water spider  who brought back fire to the animals. In the  beginning there was no fire, and the entire  earth was cold. Using a flash of lightning,  the Thunderers put fire into the bottom of  a sycamore tree, but no animals were able to  go near the tree and get the fire. After many  attempts to get the fire, Kananesky Amaiyehi,  the water spider, who had downy hair and red  stripes on her bottom, volunteered to try. But  the problem was, how was she to carry the  fire? “I’ll manage that,” she said as she spun a  thread from her body and wove it into a   tusti  bowl, which she fastened on her back. Then  she crossed over to the island where the tree  was located. She put one little coal of fire into  her bowl and came back with it. Ever since,  animals have had fire, and the water spider still  keeps her   tusti   bowl.  Kanthaka   In Buddhist legend, the steed of  the Buddha.  See also:   buddha, the  Kappa   In Japanese folklore, a river demon  with the body of a tortoise, the limbs of a  frog, and the head of a monkey. His head has  a hollow at the top containing a strength-giv -  ing fluid. He lives in the water and comes out  in the evening to eat. He sucks the blood of  horses and cows through their anuses. He also  drags humans into the water and sucks out  Kappa   55 

=== 페이지 575 ===
their blood through their anuses. Humans can  outwit him by being civil to him and bowing.  This act forces Kappa to return the bow; his  life fluid spills from his head and he loses his  strength. He can also be placated by throwing  cucumbers with the names and ages of family  members into the water where he lives. If a  human is challenged to single combat with a  kappa, it is essential to accept and hope that it  will not be able to keep its head erect during  the encounter. The human can then extract a  promise from the kappa while it is in its weak -  ened state.  Kapsirko   A poor Russian peasant is caught  stealing firewood from his master and is about  to be sent to Siberia as punishment. The mas -  ter decides to give Kapsirko a chance to redeem  himself and sets for him an impossible task: to  steal his master’s horse from a guarded stable.  When Kapsirko accomplishes this, the master  gives him a second assignment, to steal his wife  away. Again the peasant is able to carry out  the challenge by enticing the wife out of the  house, wrapping her up, and rushing away in  his sleigh. Along the way they pass a lake where  there is a   vodianoi,   a water demon, who agrees  to buy the wife for a capful of money. Kapsirko  is cunning, however, and cuts a hole in his cap  so that the coins eventually fill his sleigh. Back  at home, the peasant is now wealthy, but once  again he is called on by his master to get his  wife back. He is promised half the master’s  estate if he can accomplish the task. Kapsirko  agrees and goes down to the lake, where he  builds himself a small cottage and spends his  days and evenings twisting a rope. One day a  water sprite appears and asks Kapsirko what he  is doing, only to learn that the rope is for string -  ing up the water demon after he has drained all  the water from the lake. The sprite disappears  and reports the message from Kapsirko to the  water demon. Next the   vodianoi   appears and  asks what Kapsirko wants. He replies that he  wants the master’s wife back, but the water  demon refuses. Kapsirko then suggests three  tasks, and the winner will receive the wife.  First is to see who can whistle so loud that the  other will fall into the lake. The water demon  whistles first, but Kapsirko does not fall, then  Kapsirko whistles and hits the   vodianoi   from the  back with a club so that he falls into the lake.  The next contest is a race, but again the cun -  ning peasant has a trick. He says that he has a  grandson who will race in his stead, but, in fact,  his grandson is a hare. Kapsirko has actually  picked up two hares along the way, and he lets  one of them run in his place. The water demon  agrees but is surprised when he comes back out  of breath and finds the second hare waiting for  him, fresh and ready to run again. The third  contest is to be a wrestling match, but Kapsirko  then tells the water demon that his grandfather,  a bear, will wrestle for him. The bear wins,  of course, and the   vodianoi   has to return the  wife to Kapsirko, who then takes her home  Kappa  55    Kapsirko

=== 페이지 576 ===
to his master. Kapsirko is richly rewarded and  receives half of his master’s estate, as well as a  large sum of money.  Karadzich, Vuk Stefanovich   (1787–1864)  Pioneer   Serbian   folklorist,   linguist,   collec -  tor, and ethnographer. He reformed Serbian  and   Croatian   orthography   and   created   the  modern   Serbo-Croatian   literary   tongue   by  switching   from   Church   Slavonic   traditional  patterns to the Serbo-Croatian spoken dialect.  Vuk was the first to collect and publish tradi -  tional Serbo-Croatian folklore that had been  transmitted orally for generations during the  Ottoman domination. His voluminous collec -  tion includes folk songs, ballads, heroic epics  (including those featuring Marko [Kraljevich],  the Prince), proverbs, and descriptions of folk  life and customs. He was among the first folk -  lorists to preserve variants, use the language as  it was spoken, and identify informants.  See also:   kraljevich, marko  Karashishi   Stone lions often found in front  of Buddhist temples in Japan.  Karasu Tengu   (crow Tengu)   In Japanese  folklore, a trickster spirit.  See also:   trickster  Karshipta   In Persian mythology, a bird who  brought the laws of the creator god, Ahura  Mazda,   to   the   underground   cavern   where  Yima, the first man, had stored men and ani -  mals to save them from a winter that destroyed  the earth. Karshipta recited the sacred Avesta  in the language of birds.  See also:   ahura mazda; avesta; yima  Karu and Rairu   In the mythology of the  Mundurucu   Indians   of   Brazil,   father   and  son creator gods. Karusakahiby and his son  Rairu emerged out of chaos. Rairu stumbled  on a bowlshaped stone, which he picked up,  placing it on his head. It began to grow until  it formed the heavens. He then knelt down  before his father. The older god was jealous  of his son, because he believed Rairu was  too   clever   and   therefore   might   contrive   a  scheme to overthrow him. When Rairu real -  ized his father wished to kill him, he fled, but  Karusakahiby discovered where he was hiding.  When Karusakahiby was about to strike his  son, Rairu cried out: “Do not hit me, for in  the hollow of the earth I have found people,  who will come forth and labor for us.” The  first people were then brought out from their  underground home. They were separated into  tribes, the laziest becoming birds, bats, pigs,  and butterflies.  Kashyapa   (one   who   swallowed   light)   In  Buddhism, Buddha, the Keeper of Light, who  lived on earth for some 20,000 years and con -  verted 20,000 people. His mount is the lion,  his right hand is in the pose of “charity,” and  his left hand holds a monastic garment. In  Tibet he is called Hod-srun and in China Chia-  yeh. Also the name of a principal disciple of  Shakyamuni Buddha.  Kasogonga   In the mythology of the Cha-  co Indians of central South America, a rain  goddess.  Kasyapa   In Hindu mythology, a sage who is  quite obscure. In the   Mahabharata   Kasyapa was  given 13 of Daksha’s daughters as wives, repre -  senting the 13 months of the lunar year. One of  the wives was Aditi, with whom he fathered 12  Adityas, representing the solar year.  See also:   aditi; daksha; danavas; diti  Kate Shelley   In American folklore, Kate  Shelley was a young girl who lived in Iowa  near a railroad bridge that crossed over a  river far below. On one stormy night the  bridge collapsed and sent an engine crashing  down into the river. Kate, hearing the sound  of the train wreck, even over the sounds of  the thunder and lightning, rushed out with  her lantern and down the tracks to warn an  Kate Shelley   55 

=== 페이지 577 ===
oncoming passenger train of the danger just  ahead. She was successful, and many lives  were thus saved. The legend has moved from  the little town of Moingona, where it suppos -  edly took place, over to the town of Boone.  Outside of Boone there is a very high railroad  trestle, nearly 200 feet high, that has been  renamed   the   Kate   Shelley   Bridge.   During  “Pufferbilly Days” in Boone, the Boone and  Scenic Valley Railroad still takes passengers  over this bridge, and on each trip the story of  Kate Shelley is told.  Katha   Sarit   Sagara   (the   ocean   of   rivers)  Collection of Indian folktales by Somadeva  of Kashmir, written in the 12th century and  translated into English by C. H. Tawney in two  volumes (1880–1884).  Kaumodaki   In Hindu mythology, the mace  of Krishna (an incarnation of the god Vishnu),  given to him by Agni, the fire god, when the  two battled Indra, the storm god.  See also:   agni; indra; krishna; vishnu  Kaundinya   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist  legend,   the   first   disciple   of   the   Buddha.  According to Buddhist texts, Kaundinya “had  thoroughly grasped the doctrine of the Holy  One, and the Buddha, looking into his heart,  said, ‘Truly Kaundinya has understood the  truth.’   ” Hence Kaundinya was called Ajnata-  Kaundinya   (Kaundinya   has   understood   the  teaching; Kaundinya has no more to learn).  See also:   buddha, the  Kavah   Blacksmith in the Persian epic poem  Shah Namah   by Firdusi who refused to sacrifice  his children to the evil king, Zahhak.  Kavah was a strong and brave blacksmith  who had a large family. One day the lot fell  to two of his sons to be sacrificed to feed the  serpents that came out of the neck of King  Zahhak. (The serpents had been placed there  by the evil spirit, Ahriman.) Kavah went to the  king and protested:  Why give the brains of my beloved  children  As serpent-food, and talk of doing justice  (James Atkinson translation).  Zahhak,   taken   aback   by   such   boldness,  ordered Kavah’s sons to be released but placed  Kavah’s name on the list in their place.  “Are you then men, or what?” cried the  blacksmith to the assembled court. “You have  made a pact with this devil.”  Kavah then tore the register, threw it under  his foot, and left the court, taking his two sons  with him. After he had left, the nobles com -  plained to the king that such behavior should  not be tolerated. Zahhak replied that he did  not know what had overcome him in the pres -  ence of Kavah. The blacksmith then joined the  forces of the hero Faridun, who was fighting  against Zahhak and eventually defeated the  king.  In the poem Kavah is credited with making  the mace used by Faridun in battle. It resem -  bled a cow’s head, probably symbolic of fertility  and thus strength.  See also:   ahriman;   shah namah ; zahhak  kelpie   (Kelpy) (heifer, colt)   In Celtic myth -  ology, a Scottish spirit of lakes and rivers who  caused travelers to drown. His tail strikes the  water with thunder, and he disappears in a flash  of lightning. Sometimes he appears as a horse  who lures victims into mounting him and then  rides off, plunging into a river and drowning  the rider. Thus, to see a kelpie is a sign of  impending death. There are numerous motifs  associated with the kelpie: magic horse from  water world; river says, “the time has come but  not the man.”  Kemp Morgan   In American folklore, comic  oil-digging hero, who could smell oil under -  ground. He had a tremendous appetite and  had a full-time cook, Bull Cook Morrison of  Smackover, Oklahoma. Once he dug a well so  deep that it came out in Brazil. Another time  560   Katha Sarit Sagara

=== 페이지 578 ===
he dug a well that shot oil up to heaven, causing  the clouds to slide. The angels complained, and  Kemp put a cap on the well.  See also:   fakelore  Kenelm, St.   (brave helmet)   (Died 819)   In  Christian legend, saint venerated in Gloucester,  Winchcombe, England. Feast, 17 July. Kenelm  was the son of King Kenwulf of Wessex. When  he was seven years old he was murdered on  orders of his sister. The crime was reported  to Rome by a white dove, which alighted on  the altar of St. Peter’s, bearing the following  couplet:  In Clent cow pasture, under a thorn  Of head bereft, lies Kenelm king-born.  kenning   In   Norse   mythology,   a   word   or  phrase   that   consists   of   a   base   word   and   a  modifer. The base word   Aegir   and the modi -  fier   horse   combine to produce a kenning for a  ship, “Aegir’s horse.” Kennings are common in  written eddic poetry but they are also found in  other Germanic languages. In skaldic poetry  they are of particular importance because they  refer to other myths and heroic legends and  can only be understood if the listener to these  tales also knows the story that is being referred  to by the kenning. The kenning for poetry is  “Dvalin’s drink” because the mead of poetry  was in the possession of the dwarf Dvalin.  See   also:   aegir;   byleipt;   dvalin;   loki;  poetic edda ;   prose edda ; skald  Ken-ro-ji-jin   In Japanese mythology, earth  god, usually portrayed with a bowl in one hand  and a spear in the other.  Kentigern, St.   (chief lord?)   (sixth or seventh  century)   In Christian legend, patron saint of  Glasgow, Scotland. Feast, 14 January.  St. Kentigern is credited with the founding  of Glasgow Cathedral. The most famous medi -  eval legend associated with the saint deals with  Queen Langoureth, who had been unfaithful  to her husband, King Roderich. The king had  given his wife a ring, and she in turn gave it  to her lover. Knowing this, the king stole up  on the lover one night and took the ring from  his finger without waking him. The next day  Roderich asked his wife for the ring. Fright -  ened at what she had done, the queen went to  St. Kentigern for help. Kentigern prayed and  then went to the Clyde River, where the king  had thrown the ring, and caught a salmon. He  opened up the fish, extracted the ring, which  the fish had swallowed, and gave it to the  queen, who showed it to the king. The arms  of Glasgow portray a salmon with a ring in its  mouth, as well as an oak tree and bell, alluding  to the legend that the saint called pagans to  worship the Christian God by hanging a bell  on an oak tree and ringing it. St. Kentigern is  also called St. Mungo (dearest).  See also:   druids; oak  Kentucky   Fried   Rat   This   urban   legend  presents the experiences of a young couple who  purchase a bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken,  which they take with them to a movie. While  the young woman chews on a drumstick in  the darkened theater, she complains that the  chicken is “rubbery” and she cannot swallow it.  She soon becomes ill and is rushed to a hospi -  tal, where the doctors diagnose poisoning. The  young man goes out to his car and retrieves the  bucket of chicken and takes it to the doctors.  They find a batter-encrusted fried rat that had  died of strychnine poison, and soon the young  woman dies of the same cause.  See also:   urban legend  Keresaspa   (Keresasp,   Keresaspo,   Garshasp)  In Persian mythology, hero who will slay the  archdemon Azhi Dahaka at the end of the  world.  Keresaspa was a beautiful youth. He carried  a club with which he slew the golden-heeled  monster, Gandarewa, and he fought the giant  bird, Kamak, which hovered over the earth  with its gigantic wings so that no rain could  Keresaspa   56 

=== 페이지 579 ===
fall. Once Keresaspa fought the horned dragon  who ate men and horses. Keresaspa climbed on  the monster’s back and started to cook lunch,  stewing some meat in a kettle. The monster  got very hot, began to perspire, and darted  forward, causing the hot water and meat to fall.  Keresaspa fled in terror.  Though   not   always   successful,   Keresaspa  will come again at the end of the world and with  his club slay the monster Azhi Dahaka when the  archdemon escapes from his prison in Mount  Demavend to cause havoc in the world.  See also:   azhi dahaka  Keri and Kame   In the mythology of the  Bakairi Indians of central Brazil, twin culture  heroes. Keri and Kame were the sons of Oka,  the jaguar, and his wife, who were originally  made of wood. Oka’s wife had become preg -  nant when she swallowed two finger bones. Her  mother-in-law, Mero, hated her and murdered  her. But before she died, a cesarean operation  was performed by the twins’ uncle Kuara, and  the twin culture heroes were born. When they  grew up, they killed their evil grandmother  by setting a forest fire in which she burned to  death. During the conflagration Kame also was  burned, but Keri blew on him and restored  him to life. In the process Keri was burned  himself but also was restored to life. In their  new forms Keri and Kame chose to take human  shapes. They ordered the sun and moon in the  heavens, separated the heavens from the earth,  created fire from the fox’s eye and water from  the Great Serpent, and then the brothers went  their separate ways.  Kerki   In   Finno-Ugric   mythology,   a   spirit  who promotes the growth of cattle. His feast  was held 1 November, the Feast of All Saints in  the Christian calendar. Closely connected with  the dead, Kerki was honored by having a feast  spread for him as well as by having the bath -  house heated. A straw doll representing Kerki  was often set up in the corner near the stove.  See also:   all saints’ day  Kevin, St.   (handsome at birth)   (sixth century)  In   Christian   legend,   abbot   of   Glendalough  (Wicklow, Ireland). Also known as St. Coegmen.  Feast, 3 June.  One Lent, according to medieval legend,  St. Kevin “fled the company of men to a certain  solitude.” He chose a small hut on an island,  where he prayed and read. Every day it was his  custom to pray for many hours with his hand  outstretched through the window of the hut.  Once a blackbird settled on his open hand and  began building a nest, then sat in the nest and  laid an egg. The saint was so moved by the  bird that he did not withdraw his hand until  the young birds were hatched. Another legend  tells that Kevin would not allow women on his  island retreat. One day he was followed to his  hut by a woman named Kathleen. In anger the  saint hurled Kathleen from a rock. From that  day forth her ghost never left the place where  St. Kevin lived.  Keyne, St.   (fifth century)   In Christian leg -  end, a female hermit. Feast, 8 October. St.  Keyne was the daughter of King Brycham of  Brecknock. When she died, angels came and  removed her hairshirt and replaced it with a  white robe. Her well, located near Liskeard,  Cornwall, is believed to give drinkers of its  waters power over their wives or husbands.  The trick is to get to the well before one’s  spouse.  Kezef   In Jewish folklore, an angel of death  who fought against Moses in Horeb. Kezef was  seized by the high priest Aaron and imprisoned  in the Holy Tabernacle. The incidents are not  recorded in the Bible, however, but supplied by  Jewish nonscriptural writings.  See also:   aaron; moses  Kezer-Tshingis-Kaira-Khan   In   Siberian  mythology, the hero of the flood myth as told  by the Soyots. He saved his family on a raft  when the flood came and re-created everything  when the waters subsided. He is credited with  562   Keri and Kame

=== 페이지 580 ===
the invention of wine, as is Noah in the Old  Testament.  See also:   noah  Khadau and Mamaldi   In Siberian mythol -  ogy, the first man and woman in myths told by  the Amur. The myths vary: some say Khadau  and Mamaldi created the earth or that they  were the first parents of the shamans or that  they were shamans themselves. Mamaldi cre -  ated the Asian continent and the Island of  Sakhalin and was then murdered by her hus -  band, Khadau. Before she was killed, she gave  her husband the souls of future shamans who  had been created earlier.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla  Khadijah   In Islamic history and legend, first  wife of the prophet Muhammad. She is one of  the four perfect women in Islam, the others  being Fatima, the prophet’s daughter; Mary,  daughter of Imran; and Asia, wife of the pha -  raoh drowned in the Red Sea.  See also:   fatima; muhammad  Khen-Pa   In Tibetan folklore, the Old Man  or master of the sky, who is portrayed as an  old   man   with   snow-white   hair,   dressed   in  white robes, and riding on the white dog  of the sky. In his hand he carries a crystal  wand.  See also:   khon-ma  Khepera   (Khepri, Kheprer, Chepera) (cre -  ated himself)  In Egyptian mythology, god who repre -  sented   the   rising   or   morning   sun   and   was  closely   associated   with   the   scarab,   a   beetle  sacred in ancient Egypt.  Khepera was one of the original creation  gods. He was said to have been self-created,  born of his own substance. In one myth he  copulated with his own shadow, and from his  semen came Shu, the air, and Tefnut, moisture.  From the union of Shu and Tefnut came Geb,  the earth, and Nut, the sky; they in turn bore  the great deities Osiris, Isis, Set, and Nephthys.  This group of nine deities was worshipped in a  cosmological system known as the ennead, or  Company of Nine Gods. In another creation  myth, the sun god Ra was said to have created  himself in primeval time in the form of the god  Khepera.  Khepera   was   portrayed   in   Egyptian   art  as a beetle-headed man or as a man with a  beetle surmounting his head, or simply as a  beetle. The scarab beetle pushing a large ball  of dung was seen as an image of a giant beetle  pushing the sun across the sky. Young beetles  are hatched from buried dung balls, and this  perhaps gave rise to the idea that Khepera  was also self-generated and emerged from the  ground.  Since it was believed that the beetle was the  incarnation of Khepera, beetle amulets were  worn to attract the power of the god and secure  his protection. In Egyptian funerary practice  beetles or beetle amulets, often inscribed with  texts from The Book of the Dead ,   were buried  with the mummies to help ensure their resur -  Scarab, an amulet associated with Khepera  Khepera   563

=== 페이지 581 ===
rection. Roman soldiers in battle wore the like -  ness of the beetle on a ring.  See also:   book of the dead, the; ennead;  geb; isis; nephthys; nut; osiris; shu; tefnut  Khnum   (Khnemu,   Chnum)   (molder)   In  Egyptian mythology, a creator god who resid -  ed   at   Elephantine,   the   region   the   ancient  Egyptians also believed to be the source of  the river Nile, personified as the god Hapi.  Egyptian views concerning Khnum changed  during the course of their long history, but  various ancient texts show that Khnum always  held an exalted position among the Egyptian  deities. He even appears on gnostic gems and  papyri for some 200 or 300 years after the birth  of Christ. Khnum was believed to have molded  on his potter’s wheel the great cosmic egg that  contained the sun. He was also known as the  potter who fashioned humankind and the gods.  As a ram-headed deity, Khnum is often depict -  ed at a potter’s wheel fashioning from clay  both the   ba   and   ka   of the ruler. The episodes  depicting the birth of Hathsepsut at Dier el  Bahari contain one vignette in which this scene  is   portrayed.   Among   Khnum’s   epithets   are  Khnum Nehep (Khnum the creator), Khnum  Per-Ankh (Khnum, governor of the house of  life), Khnum Khenti-Taui (Khnum, governor  of the two lands), Khnum Neb (Khnum, lord),  Khnum-Neb-Ta-Ankhtet (Khnum, lord of the  land of life), and Khnum Khenti Netchem-  Tchem Ankhet (Khnum, lord of the house of  the sweet life).  See also:   ba; gnosticism; hapi; hathsep -  sut; ka  Kholumolumo   In African mythology (Sotho  of South Africa), a monster who swallowed all  of the people and animals except for one preg -  nant woman. When the woman gave birth she  named her son Moshanyana. He later attacked  the monster and easily killed it because it could  not move. Then Moshanyana opened up its  stomach, letting out all of the people and ani -  mals. Though most were pleased, some men  eventually grew envious of Moshanyana and  plotted his death. He escaped three times but  was killed on the fourth attempt.  Khnum  564   Khnum

=== 페이지 582 ===
Khon-Ma   In   Tibetan   folklore,   the   Old  Mother, who rides on a ram and is dressed in  golden-yellow robes. In her hand she holds a  golden noose, and her face contains 80 wrinkles.  Her personal attendant is called Sa-thel-nag-po.  See also:   khen-pa  Khonsu   (Chons, Chunsu, Khons) (navigator,  he who crosses the sky in a boat)   In Egyptian  mythology, a moon god whose cult center was  at Karnak, where he, his father, Amun, and his  mother, Mut, formed a holy triad. In the north  he was said to be the son of Ptah and Sekhmet.  In the triad Khonsu is represented as an unclad  youth with the side lock of hair depicting youth  in Egyptian art. On his head are the represen -  tations of the full and crescent moon. Early  references to Khonsu depict him as a terrify -  ing figure, the “angry one of the gods,” who  strangled lesser deities and ate their hearts. It  was for these ferocious qualities that he was  invoked   in   spells   against   powerful   demons.  Khonsu was also a god of healing and aided  both women and cattle to become fertile and  conceive. One ancient myth tells how he saved  a young princess from demonic possession.  Once the king of Thebes prayed to a statue of  Khonsu on behalf of the daughter of the prince  of Bekhten. The god listened to the king’s plea,  nodded his head (the statue of Khonsu was pro -  vided with a movable head, which the priests  manipulated), and promised to give his divine  power to the statue that was to be sent to the  city of the sick princess. The statue arrived in  Bekhten, and its magical powers exorcised the  princess of the demon that possessed her. The  demon then spoke to Khonsu and acknowl -  edged the god’s superior power. Khonsu, the  demon, and the princess spent a happy day  together, after which the demon returned to  his own dwelling place, and Khonsu returned  to his home in the form of a hawk.  See also:   amun; mut  Khonvum   In African mythology (Pygmy),  supreme god, who makes contact with humans  through an animal intermediary, usually a cha -  meleon. He renews the sun each day by throw -  ing broken pieces of stars, gathered during the  night, at it.  See also:   efé  Khors   (sun, in Old Russian)   In Slavic mythol -  ogy, one of the sun gods of the Kievan pantheon  who was depended on for good harvests and  seasonable weather. Sun worship was common  in old Slavic religion and reflected people’s  conceptualizations of light, fire, and the gener -  ating forces of the sun. As a god, Khors was the  essence of good, in contrast with evil. This kind  of association of light with goodness continued  in Russian legendry. Prince Vladimir asked the  biblical king David the questions: “How did  White Light originate?” and “Where did the  sun come from?” King David answered, “The  White Light originated in God’s heart, and the  Sun from God’s face.”  See also:   david  Kibuka   In African mythology (Buganda of  Uganda), a war god, brother of the demigod  Mukasa. Kibuka assisted the Buganda army by  hovering above the battlefield in the clouds and  shooting arrows down at their enemies. During  one battle some women were taken prisoners.  Despite a warning not to have sexual relations  with any of the women, Kibuka brought one of  them to his hut. As a result, in the next battle  he was mortally wounded on top of a tree and  later died.  See also:   mukasa  Kied Kie Jubmel   In Lapland mythology, a  stone god worshipped as late as the 17th cen -  tury. The images of stone gods usually were  extremely crude, making it difficult to decipher  whether a man or animal or some composite  figure   was   represented.   In   ritual   connected  with Kied Kie Jubmel, a male reindeer was  selected for sacrifice. The reindeer’s right ear  was pierced and a red thread run through it; its  blood was then preserved in a barrel. A priest  Kied Kie Jubmel   565

=== 페이지 583 ===
took the blood, some of the fat, the antlers,  the bones of the head and neck, and the feet  and hooves; he anointed the idol with the fat  and blood. The antlers were placed behind the  stone image—the right horn with the penis of  the animal attached to it, the left horn bearing  an amulet of tin and silver worked together  with the red thread. The elaborate ritual was  performed to guarantee the worshipper good  hunting   and   fishing.   Kied   Kie   Jubmel   was  called Storjunka (the great lord) in Swedish.  The term is sometimes generically applied to  stone gods.  Kikimora   (tormenting   spirit)   In   Russian  folklore, female house spirit who lives behind  the oven, said in some accounts to be the wife  of Domovoi, the male house spirit; sometimes  said to be a   mora,   a person with two souls.  Kikimora   appears   in   numerous   folktales,  though no precise image emerges. She looks  after   poultry   and   sometimes   takes   part   in  household tasks if the wife herself is diligent;  if not, she causes havoc by making noises in  the night and waking those asleep. Sometimes  she causes women to tangle their spinning if  they arise from their spinning wheels without  making the sign of the cross. Anatol Liadov’s  symphonic poem   Kikimora   captures the capri -  cious nature of the spirit. Ivan Bilibin’s sketch  shows a composite animal made up of chicken  legs, semihuman hands, furry ears, horns, and a  beaked face and wearing a peasant costume.  See also:   domovoi; mora  k’ilin   (Chi-len)   In   Chinese   mythology,   a  unicornlike creature. The male,   k’i,   and the  female,   lin,   are combined into a compound  word. The k’ilin has the body of a deer, the legs  and hoofs of a horse; its head is like that of a  horse or dragon, its tail like an ox or lion, and  its horn is fleshy. Some Chinese works depict  the animal as scaly, others as hairy. The k’ilin  is a paragon of virtue and filial love. It walks  so lightly as to produce no sound and does not  hurt anyone. In Chinese legend the birth of  Confucius was announced by the appearance of  a k’ilin, and so was the philosopher’s death. In  Japanese the creature is called a kirin.  See also:   confucius  Kimon   (demon gate)   In Japan, gate placed  on the north side of a garden; through it the  spirits of evil are supposed to pass. A Shinto  shrine is erected in front of the gate.  King   Hal   In American southern folklore,  an escaped slave who ruled a kingdom near  the fork of the Alabama and Tombigbee rivers.  His kingdom was destroyed when one of his  subjects, another runaway slave, went back to  his white master and reported where Hal and  his subjects lived.  King Watzmann   A mountain near Berch -  tesgaden   in   Upper   Bavaria   is   called   the  Watzmann. It has two high peaks and seven  little   ones.   This   legend   is   told   about   the  mountain: Many years ago there lived the evil  and mischievous King Watzmann. He had a  wife and seven children. All of them loved to  hunt more than anything else and rode wildly  through the farmers’ fields and trampled their  grain. One day one of the wild hunting dogs  of the king wounded a child playing in front  of a small house. The father of the child, a  K’ilin  566   Kikimora

=== 페이지 584 ===
poor man, killed the hound. King Watzmann  became so angry that he turned all of the dogs  loose, and they killed the farmer. While he was  dying, the man cursed the hard-hearted king.  God heard him and turned the king and his  entire family into stone.  Kinharingan   In the mythology of Borneo,  creator of the world and humankind, along  with his wife Munsumundok. According to one  myth, Kinharingan and his wife emerged from  a rock in the middle of the ocean. They walked  on the waters until they came to the house of  Bisagit, the spirit of smallpox. He gave them  some earth, and the couple proceeded to create  land, sun, moon, stars and people. In exchange  for the earth, however, Bisagit demanded that  half   of   the   people   created   by   Kinharingan  would have to die of smallpox. So every 40  years Bisagit comes to claim his due. In a vari -  ant myth, Kinharingan and his wife killed one  of their children, cut it into small pieces, and  planted the pieces in the earth; from it sprang  all plants and animals.  Kintu and Nambi   In African mythology  (Buganda   of   Uganda),   the   first   man   and  woman. Death did not want Kintu and Nambi,  the first man and woman, to leave heaven for  earth. Gulu, the sky god and father of Nambi,  warned the couple of Death’s wish, suggest -  ing that they leave as soon as possible and  not return to heaven for any reason. Nambi,  however, returned to heaven to ask her father,  Gulu, for some grain to feed her fowl. Death,  who was Nambi’s brother, took this opportu -  nity to follow his sister to earth. Kintu became  very angry when his wife came back to earth  accompanied by Death, but Nambi told Kintu  to wait and see if anything would happen.  For a while both Kintu and Nambi lived very  happily. They had many children. Eventually,  Death came to their home and asked for one  of Kintu’s children to serve as his cook. After  being turned down, Death asked a second  time, but still Kintu refused, saying that Gulu  would not be pleased to see his grandchild  working as Death’s cook. Death then threat -  ened to kill the child if Kintu would not agree  to give him up. Kintu did not agree, and the  child died. In time more of Kintu’s children  died, so he turned to Gulu to find out what,  if anything, could be done to stop Death’s  rampage. Gulu reminded Kintu of the warn -  ing he had given earlier, but nevertheless he  sent Kaizuki, brother of Death and Nambi,  to aid the couple. Kaizuki fought with Death  but could not overcome him. Death went to  hide in the ground, and Kaizuki could not get  him to come out. Since then Death has lived  underground and is always present.  In a variant myth Kintu lived alone with  only one cow. Nambi came to visit him one day  and fell in love with him. Before long, however,  she had to return to her father, Gulu, the sky  god. Nambi’s relatives disliked Kintu because  all he drank was milk, and they objected to her  marriage. Gulu then decided to test Kintu and  removed his cow, forcing Kintu to eat grass  and leaves. Nambi, however, let Kintu know  that his cow had been taken to heaven. Various  tests were given by Gulu to Kintu, and in each  one he succeeded. Finally, Kintu was allowed  to marry Nambi. He was asked by Gulu to pick  the cow that was his from among three large  herds of cows that all looked alike. A bee came  and told Kintu not only which cow to pick but  which calves had been born to the cow while it  was in heaven.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla  Kirata-n-te-rerei   (the most beautiful of men)  In   Micronesian   mythology,   ancestor   of   the  people of the Gilbert Islands. The son of Te-  ariki-n-tarawa, a hero, and Na Te-reere, a tree  goddess, Kirata-n-te-rerei was so handsome  that a woman could conceive a child by just  looking at his handsome body.  Kisagan-Tengri   In Siberian mythology, a  war   god   worshipped   by   the   Mongols.   He  Kisagan-Tengri   56 

=== 페이지 585 ===
protected the army, helped them locate the  enemy, and then brought them victory.  Kishimojin   In Japanese mythology, goddess  of women in childbirth, prayed to for offspring;  protector of the Buddhist world and of children  in particular.  Originally,   Kishimojin   was   a   cannibal  woman in Hindu mythology, mother of 1,000  children. One child, Bingara, was converted  by the Buddha, and later Kishimojin also was  converted. In one myth she was condemned to  give birth to 500 children to pay for her evil  deeds, earning for herself the title Mother of  Demons. In a variation she was sent to hell and  was reborn in the shape of a ghoul to give birth  to 500 devils, of whom she was to eat one a day  because in life she had sworn to devour all of  the children in one village.  She was converted by the Buddha in her  second existence.  See also:   buddha, the  Kitamba   In African mythology (Mbundu of  Angola), a king who ordered all of his subjects  to join him in a state of perpetual mourning  when his wife died. No one was permitted to  speak or make any noise in public. Despite the  fact that the lesser chiefs objected strenuously  to the king’s proclamation, Kitamba continued  the mourning. A council of elders appointed a  doctor to help resolve the matter. The doctor  and his little son dug a grave in the floor of  their home in their effort to reach the under -  world to see the king’s wife. Each day they dug  deeper, and at last they succeeded in reaching  the king’s wife, who explained to them that no  one once dead could return to the realm of  the living. She gave the doctor her armlet so  that Kitamba would know that the doctor had  succeeded in reaching her. When Kitamba saw  the armlet, he finally permitted the mourning  to end.  Kit Carson   (1809–1868)   In American his -  tory and folklore, popular name of Christopher  Houston, a frontiersman and guide who appears  as a hero in many legends. One of Carson’s  contemporaries said that “Kit Carson’s word  was as sure as the sun comin’ up” and “Kit  never cussed more’n was necessary,” making  Carson a perfect subject for legend. Kit Carson  appears in Willa Cather’s novel   Death Comes for  the Archbishop   and Joaquin Miller’s literary bal -  lad, “Kit Carson’s Ride,” included in his   Songs  of the Sierras.  See also:   buffalo bill  Kitpusiagana   (born by cesarean operation,  taken from guts)  In   North   American   Indian   mythology  (Micmac), culture hero, second in power only  to Gluskap.  See also:   gluskap and malsum  Kitshi   Manitou   (master   of   life,   great  mystery)   In North American Indian mythol -  Kit Carson  56    Kishimojin

=== 페이지 586 ===
ogy (Chippewa/Ojibwa), the great spirit, full -  ness of power.  See also:   manitou  Kitsune   (fox)   In Japanese folklore, a char -  acter who appears in many folktales and folk  beliefs.  See also:   fox  Kiyohime   In Japanese legend, a woman who  destroyed the monk Anchin when he refused  her sexual advances.  Kiyohime was the daughter of an innkeeper  at Masago at whose house Anchin, of the mon -  astery of Dojoji, used to stay when on pilgrimage  to Kumano. The monk petted the child, giving  her a rosary and some charms, never thinking  that her childish affection would one day dev e lop  into fiery love. However, the young girl’s immod -  est advances soon became the bane of Anchin’s  life. As a result, her love turned to hatred, and  Kiyohime called on the gods of the underworld  to aid her in the destruction of Anchin.  Once Kiyohime pursued Anchin into the  temple, and he fled and hid in the great bell,  which was ten feet high and weighed so much  that 100 men could not move it. Approaching  the bell, Kiyohime lashed herself into a frenzy.  As she nearly touched it, the superstructure of  the bell suddenly gave way, and the bell fell  with a dull sound over the monk, imprisoning  him. At the same moment the figure of Kiyo -  hime began to change. Her body became cov -  ered with scales, and her legs joined and grew  into a dragon’s tail. She wrapped herself around  the bell, striking it with a T-shaped stick, and  emitted flames from all parts of her body. Her  blows rained on the bell until it became red  hot and finally melted. Kiyohime fell into the  molten mass, and only a handful of white ash  could be found, the remains of the monk. The  legend is used in a No play.  See also:   no  Knaninja   In Australian mythology, name for  totem ancestors who live in the sky as spirits.  Knecht   Ruprecht   (servant   Rupert)   In  German folklore, the knight or servant of Jesus  Christ at Christmastime. In Germany until the  19th century Knecht Ruprecht was imperson -  ated by a man wearing high boots, a white robe,  a yellow wig, and a mask. He would knock at  the door on Christmas Eve or St. Nicholas  Eve or Day (5 or 6 December) and say he had  been sent by Jesus Christ to bring gifts to the  children. Parents would then be asked if the  children had been good. If the answer was yes,  Knecht Ruprecht would give a gift to the chil -  dren (provided earlier by the parents). If the  children had been bad, he would give a whip  or rod and tell the parents to use it on their  children. He has many other names, including  St. Nicholas.  See also:   nicholas, st.  Knights   Templar,   Order   of   In French  history and legend, nine knights who, at the  beginning of the 12th century, assumed the  responsibility of protecting pilgrims on their  journey to the Holy Land. The name Templar  was given to them because they kept their arms  in a building given to them by an abbot of  the convent on the site of the old Temple of  Solomon in Jerusalem. They wore long white  mantles with a bright red cross on the left  shoulder. Their seal shows two knights riding  Seal of the Order of Knights Templar  Knights Templar, Order of   56 

=== 페이지 587 ===
on a single horse, the story being that they  were so poor they had to share the horse.  See also:   baphomet; solomon  Kobold   In German folklore, a house spirit  who likes to play pranks and make noise, but  who also watches over the household. The  Kobold warns the inhabitants about thieves,  gives good advice, takes care of the cattle, and  carries out certain household chores, but he  must be rewarded for this work or else he will  play a prank. In modern German, a young girl  who quickly takes care of her housework is said  to have her own Kobold. The same is said if  someone becomes rich quickly.  See also:   domovoi; kikimora  Kohin   In Australian mythology, god dwell -  ing in the Milky Way who sends thunder and  lightning. He was once a warrior.  Koi   In Australian mythology, generic name  for the spirit of the bush.  Kojiki   (records of ancient matters)   Book of  Japanese Shinto mythology, written in Chinese  characters, presented to the Japanese court in  712   c.e.  The   Kojiki   is the oldest Japanese book. It  was commissioned by the emperor Temmu  (673–686),   who   wished   to   preserve   native  Shinto beliefs under the growing strength of  Buddhism, which was taking root in Japan.  The emperor wished to avoid future corrup -  tions of the “exact truth” and to ensure that  future generations would understand the story  of the creation of Japan and the divine ances -  try of the monarch. The book is one of the  basic sources for the study of Shinto mythol -  ogy and belief.  The   Nihongi   or   Nihonshoki   (Chronicles of  Japan), completed in 720, is the second most  important   text   for   Shinto,   being   twice   the  length of the   Kojiki.   It contains many of the  myths of the earlier work, often giving vari -  ants. Many of the gods appear under different  names. It traces myth, legend, and history up  to 697.  See also:   nihongi  Kojin   In   Japanese   Shinto   mythology,   god  of the hearth, sometimes portrayed with three  faces and six arms, carrying a bow, arrows,  sword, lance, saw, and bell. His shrine is usually  located near a fireplace or stove in the kitchen.  When his statue is placed in a garden, he is  called Ji-Kojin (ground kojin). Sometimes he is  portrayed by three thin plates of stone.  Komdei-Mirgan   In Siberian mythology, a  hero in a Tartar myth whose head was cut off  and restored. One day Komdei-Mirgan went  to hunt the black fox and in doing so broke his  leg. He did not know that the black fox was the  daughter of Erlik-Khan, the lord of the dead.  While Komdei- Mirgan was trying to get up,  Yelbegen, a monster with nine heads riding  a 40-horned ox, came and cut off his head.  Yelbegen then brought the head to the land  of the dead. Kubaiko, the sister of Komdei-  Mirgan, went in search of the head in the land  of the dead. After numerous adventures she  succeeded in getting the Water of Life from  God, which restored her brother to life.  See also:   erlik; water of life  Kompira   In Japanese mythology, god of sail -  ors and bringer of prosperity. He is portrayed  as a fat man sitting down with his legs crossed,  a purse in one hand.  Konsei dai-myojin   (root of life great shin -  ing god)   In Japanese Shinto belief, word for  natural stones that have phallic shapes. The  term also is applied to a stone carved in the  shape of a phallus.  Kookinberrook and Berrokborn   In Aus-  tralian mythology, the first men created, made  by the god Pundjel. They married Kunewarra  and Kuurook.  See also:   pundjel  5  0   Kobold

=== 페이지 588 ===
Koopoo   In Australian mythology, the red -  plain   kangaroo   responsible   for   cats   having  spots. One day Koopoo met Jabbor, the cat  who lived in the area Koopoo was traveling  through. Jabbor asked Koopoo to divulge to  him half of the secret ceremonies of the kan -  garoos. Koopoo, of course, refused, saying that  the corroborees—big dances—belonged only  to kangaroos. Jabbor wanted to fight for the  secrets, but Koopoo called on other kangaroos,  who threw spears at the cat. This act resulted in  many cats having spots, for each spot represents  a place where a spear entered Jabbor’s body. As  the cat lay dying, Deert, the moon god, came  by and told Jabbor to drink a special kind of  water that would permit him to come back to  life. The other cats, however, prevented Jabbor  from getting to the water. Deert grew angry  and declared that because of this act all things  would have to die. Only he, Deert, would be  able to die and return to life again.  See also:   deert; gidja; najara  Ko Pala   In Burmese mythology, a king who  returned to life as a crab. Ko Pala was chosen  king when the ruler of the valley dwellers died  with no heir to succeed him. The future king  was brought in a basket and placed in the for -  mer king’s house during the night. The people  were so exhausted by the funeral ceremonies  for the dead king that they accepted Ko Pala as  the new king without any resistance. His reign,  however, did not satisfy the people who had  put him in the basket, so they placed him on an  island and let him starve to death. After many  reincarnations he returned as a crab when the  entire land was flooded. He stayed until the  waters had receded and then went to Loi Pu  Kao (hill that the crab entered) and died.  Koran,   The   (The   Qur’an)   (the   recitation)  Sacred scriptures of Islam, consisting of mate -  rial given as revelation to Muhammad, the  prophet of Islam, during the seventh century  c.e.,   and gathered together for publication by  his followers. It contains not only the religious  but also the social, civil, commercial, military,  and legal codes of Islam.  Muslims believe that the Koran has existed  in heaven from all eternity in a form called  Umm alkitab.   A copy of this perfect text, which  is part of the essence of Allah, was made on  paper in heaven, bound in silk, and ornamented  with gold and the precious stones of paradise.  This sacred text was then given to the arch -  angel Gabriel, who revealed it to Muhammad  piecemeal, but he allowed the prophet to see  the complete version of the book once a year.  The night on which the complete Koran came  down   to   the   lowest   heaven,   where   Gabriel  could then reveal it to Muhammad, is called  Al Kadr.  The Koran contains 114 suras, or chap -  ters   (literally,   rows   or   series),   estimated   to  contain about 6,225   âyât,   or verses (literally,  signs), which in most cases mark a pause in  rhythm. The suras are not homogeneous but  are unsystematic clusters of fragmented text.  Muhammad directed that each fresh revelation  that was given to him by the angel Gabriel be  “entered into such and such a sura.” The final  arrangement of the book consists of the longest  sura first and proceeds to the shortest last, thus  not following the chronology of revelation.  Suras are called either “Meccan” or “Medi -  nan,”   meaning   they   belong   to   the   period  before or after the Hegira, the immigration of  Muhammad from Mecca to Medina (Yathrib)  in 622—the year 1 in Islamic reckoning. A sura  often contains material from both periods, and  scholars have produced various editions and  chronological arrangements of the contents of  the Koran.  The material of the Koran is highly varied.  There are many praises to Allah that equal the  majesty of the Old Testament. In many places  the heroes of the Hebrew scripture appear in  the Koran in legends rendered differently from  the accounts in the Old Testament. Jesus and  John the Baptist also appear, as well as the Vir -  gin Mary, but here the legends stem not from  the New Testament but from many apocryphal  Koran, The   5 

=== 페이지 589 ===
writings of the early Church. Although scholars  still debate the question, it is generally believed  that Muhammad could not read or write, so all  of his tales that are similar to tales in the Old  and New Testaments are thought to have been  gathered from oral sources.  The Koran begins with the following sura,  in which Allah is entreated as the God of com -  passion and of mercy ( Rahman ):  Praise be to Allah, Lord of the worlds!  The Compassionate, the Merciful!  King on the day of reckoning!  A   modern   Muslim,   Muhammad   Zafrulla  Khan, in his edition of the Koran, writes that  “the Quran is verbal revelation and thus liter -  ally the Word of Allah. The reader needs to  keep in mind that it is Allah speaking.   .   .   . The  Quran is extremely concise and is a master -  piece of condensation. It leaves a great deal to  the intelligence of the reader, urges reflection  and appeals constantly to the understanding.”  Of course, Western commentaries (especially  those written prior to the present century) have  not necessarily seen the suras of the Koran in  the same light.  The earliest English translation was made  in 1647 by Alexander Ross from a French ver -  sion. Ross’s attitude toward the sacred text can  be gleaned from his “needful caveat” addressed  to the Christian reader:  Good Reader, the great Arabian Impostor  now at last after a thousand years is by  way of France arrived in England, and his  Alcoran   or Gallimaufry of Errors .   .   . hath  learned to speak English.  The translator then goes on to condemn the  prophet, who caused “silly people to believe  that in his falling sickness .   .   . he had confer -  ence with the angel Gabriel.” Thomas Carlyle,  writing in the 19th century, tried to find a  via media   to Muhammad and the religion he  preached. Carlyle found the Koran “toilsome  reading,” yet at the same time he found merit  in the “primary character of the Koran .   .   . its  genuineness   .   .   . sincerity, in all senses.”  Whatever the Western view of the Koran,  it continues as perhaps the most widely read  book in the world, surpassing the Bible in its  readership. Sura 56, speaking of the Koran,  says “Only the purified shall touch it.” The  act of reading the Koran is called   Tadjwid,   and  a good Muslim must be ritually pure before  embarking on reading or even touching a copy  of the sacred text.  There   are   numerous   variant   romanized  spellings of the Koran, among them Al-Koran,  Alcoran,   Al-Kur’an,   Al-Kuron,   the   Qur’an.  Sometimes the Koran is called Al-Kitab (the  book) or Al-Furgân, from the root word “to  separate” or “distinguish.” The Koran helps  separate or distinguish truth from falsehood in  religious doctrine.  See   also:   allah; gabriel; hegira; jesus;  john   the   baptist,   st.;   muhammad;   virgin  mary  Korka-Murt and Korka-Kuzo   (man of the  house, house ruler)   In Russian-Lapland folk -  lore, household spirits who often take the form  of the master of the house when they appear.  They watch over the family, but if they are  angry, they can bring nightmares or tangle the  hair of those in the house. Since they are vari -  able in their natures, a child is not left alone  in the house because Korka-Murt and Korka-  Kuzo   might   allow   it   to   be   kidnapped   and  replaced by a changeling. Sacrifices of black  sheep often were made to the house spirits to  appease them when they were angry. Other  household spirits are Gid- Kuzo (cattleyard  man), a spirit who looks after cattle, protecting  them from beasts of prey; Domovoi, master of  the house; Kikimora, a tormenting spirit; and  Murt’s   So-Muret   (bathhouse   ruler),   a   spirit  who lives in a dark corner of the bathhouse and  resembles a tall, middle-aged man dressed in  white shirt with wooden shoes. Sometimes he  has only one eye. He appears before any great  5  2   Korka-Murt and Korka-Kuzo

=== 페이지 590 ===
misfortune is about to take place. Obin-Murt  is a spirit who protects the barn from fire and  storm.  See also:   domovoi; kikimora  Korobona   In   North   American   Indian  mythology (Warrau), heroine raped by a man-  serpent   who   gave   birth   to   a   boy   and   girl.  Korobona’s brothers believed they had killed  the boy but years later discovered that their  sister had saved him. Angry, they killed the  lad, cutting his body into pieces. They allowed  their   sister   to   bury   the   remains,   and   they  returned home. Korobona collected her son’s  remains and placed leaves and red flowers over  them. Then she noticed that the leaves began  to   move,   and   suddenly   a   fully   grown   man  appeared, armed with bow and arrows. He was  the first Carib warrior, who later terrorized the  Warrau.  Korupira   (Kurupira, Curupira)   In the folk -  lore of the Tupi Indians of Brazil, a forest  demon. Korupira is often of a mischievous  nature, but if he is in a good mood he will  help   hunters,   teaching   them   the   secrets   of  herbs. However, he does not like hunters to  wound an animal, then leave it; each kill must  be completed. Two folktales demonstrate the  dual character of Korupira. Once, in return for  some tobacco, Korupira helped a hunter. His  only injunction was that the hunter not tell his  wife of the transaction. The wife, sensing some -  thing was strange, followed her husband to the  forest. As a result, she was killed by Korupira.  A second folktale tells how Korupira was killed  when a hunter tricked the demon into stabbing  himself. After a month the hunter returned to  get Korupira’s blue teeth. When he struck the  teeth, Korupira was restored to life. Not being  especially angry, Korupira then gave the hunter  a magic bow to hunt with, instructing him  not to kill birds. The hunter disobeyed, and  as punishment he was torn apart. But out of  kindness Korupira replaced his torn flesh with  wax, bringing the hunter back to life. Korupira  then told the hunter not to eat hot foods. The  hunter disobeyed and melted.  Koshin   In Japanese mythology, god of roads,  portrayed with a fierce, scowling face and a  third eye. He has either two, four, six, or eight  arms. Two hands are folded in prayer. He is  also portrayed with the sun and moon riding  on clouds. Three monkeys, a cock, and hen are  also sometimes included. The proverbial saying  “Hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil” came  to be associated with monkeys when travelers  to China and Japan saw three carved Koshin  monkey deities on pedestals alongside the road,  with their ears, eyes, and mouths covered up.  See also:   ass  Kossuth, Lajos   (1802–1894)   In Hungarian  legend, freedom fighter in the war of indepen -  dence. He was the minister of finance in the  first independent national government and later  became governor of Hungary. Following the  collapse of the new government he had to flee  the country and later died in exile. Hungarian  folklore has made him a symbol of freedom.  When he appeared, some peasants believed  he was a reincarnation of Ferenc Rákóczi, an  earlier fighter for Hungarian freedom, who was  to come back when the country needed him.  Some of the legends attached to Kossuth stem  from those assigned to King Mátyás, another  popular figure in Hungarian folklore.  See   also:   barbarossa; rákóczi, ferenc;  mátyás  Kostchei   (Koschey,   Katschel)   In   Russian  folklore, a male aspect of Baba Yaga, an evil  wizard whose soul is hidden in a duck’s egg.  Though often called deathless or immortal,  Kostchei could die if one could find where  the egg that contained his soul was hidden. If  the egg was destroyed, Kostchei also would  be destroyed. The egg is most often inside a  duck, which is inside a rabbit, which is beneath  an oak tree, on an island in the middle of the  ocean. In Stravinksy’s ballet   L’Oiseau de feu  Kostchei   5  3

=== 페이지 591 ===
(The Firebird) Ivan, the hero, finds the egg  in the hollow of a tree and destroys it, causing  Kostchei and his evil court to disappear forever.  Kostchei   appears   in   James   Branch   Cabell’s  novel   Jurgen.  See also:   baba yaga  Kot   Boyun   In   Russia,   a   talking   cat   that  lived   in   the   Thrice-Ninth   Kingdom   within  the Thrice-Ninth Land. A czar sent Petrushka  to bring back Kot Boyun, hoping to be rid  of Petrushka so that he could marry Masha,  Petrushka’s wife. Before he left, Masha gave  her husband three hats, a pair of pincers, and  three   metal   rods.   On   approaching   the   cat,  Petrushka was to put on the three felt hats and  take the first metal bar in one hand and the  pincers in the other. The cat clawed at him  fiercely and tore away one hat after the other  before Petrushka caught the cat’s flaying leg in  the pincers. Then he beat the cat with the bar  of iron, but it soon broke as did the second one  of brass. The third bar got very hot and bent  but did not break and finally the cat begged for  mercy. When Petrushka arrived with the cat,  the czar doubted that it was indeed Kot Boyun,  but the cat hissed and spat and flew at the czar’s  throat. Petrushka brandished the pincers and  the tin bar, and the cat climbed down off the  czar and sat by Petrushka’s side. Kot Boyun  was then locked in a cage in the palace, and  Petrushka was able to return home to Masha.  See also:   petrushka  Koyan   In   Australian   mythology,   a   tribal  name for the good spirit. He is offered spears  in worship.  kraken   In western European folklore, a fan -  tastic sea monster or sea snake, also called  the   fish-mountain.   Tales   about   the   kraken  seem to have originated during the Christian  Middle Ages with numerous seamen’s accounts  of monsters haunting the deep. The kraken  was described by Bishop Pontoppidan in his  Natural History of Norway   as being a mile and  a half wide with tentacles that could capture  ships and bring them down. There is a tale of  Kraken  574   Kot Boyun

=== 페이지 592 ===
a bishop returning by sea to his own country,  who spotted what he believed to be an island.  He went ashore and celebrated Mass. When  he returned to his ship, he saw that it was not  an island on which he had stood but a kraken  afloat. Tennyson’s early poem “The Kraken”  deals with the fantastic being.  See also:   whale  Kraljevich, Marko   (1335?–1394)   In Serb -  ian   legend,   a   historical   figure   of   legendary  proportions.   Marko   Kraljevich   (Marko,   the  Prince), is featured in hundreds of Serbian  epic-ballads and folk narratives that date to  the 14th century. A fighter for the Orthodox  Christian faith, Marko achieved prominence  during the Ottoman period as a great Serbian  folk hero even though he was, in historical  fact, a Turkish vassal. The ballads, popular  in Bulgaria and Romania as well, tell of his  courage   and   incredible   feats   while   fighting  for freedom. His kind and just heart, physical  prowess, strategic cleverness, and loyalty to his  piebald steed, Sharatz, are identifying traits  of his legend. Collections and translations of  his adventures abound, beginning with those  published in the early nineteenth century by  Vuk Stefanovich Karadzich to recent compre -  hensive translations and analyses of the Marko  heroic tale cycle.  See also:   culture hero; vuk karadzich  Krampus   In   modern   Austria   during   the  Advent and Christmas season, gifts are said to  come from the   Christkindl,   the Christ Child,  but in earlier times St. Nicholas was the one  who gave the gifts on December 6, suggesting  that the custom has not always been associ -  ated with the Christ Child. Demonic figures  are also frequently associated with the gift-  giver, for example, the Krampus (bogeyman), a  horned and ugly figure who is to find out if the  children have been good during the last year.  Today, at the Christmas markets everywhere,  there are small figures made of dates, apricots,  or most often prunes, thus giving the figure the  name   Zwetschkenkrampus   (prune Krampus). The  origin of the name is unclear, but there are two  suggestions. The first comes from the German  verb   krammen,   which is described as grasping  someone with claws and wounding them. More  likely is the second explanation, that during the  19th century in Austria, young Greek emigrant  children made small figures from dried fruit  and nuts in the shape of the Krampus. The  Greek word   krampos   means “dried out,” and  thus describes the small figures, about six to  eight inches tall. In the High Tauern moun -  tains of Austria the Krampus Run, where the  figure accompanies St. Nicholas as he goes  through the village streets to the houses and  asks whether children have been good and,  thus, deserving of gifts, is still found.  See also:   nicholas, st.  A Krampus   (Susan Dow)  Krampus   5  5

=== 페이지 593 ===
Kratti   (spirit)   A Finno-Ugric guardian spirit  who watches the property of the house owner.  Kravyad   In Hindu folklore, a flesh-eating  goblin or any carnivorous animal. The term  comes from   Kravyad,   the fire that consumes  bodies on a funeral pyre.  Kriemhild   (Krimhild)   In the   Nibelungenlied,  sister of Gunther; wife of Siegfried. Siegfried  gave her a girdle and the Nibelungs’ gold.  She later avenged his murder, then was killed  herself. In the Norse version of the legend in  the   Volsunga Saga   she is called Gudrun, and  Siegfried is called Sigurd.  See also:   nibelungenlied ; siegfried;   vol -  sunga saga  Krishna   (the dark one)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, the eighth avatar or incarnation of the god  Vishnu.  Krishna was sent to earth to rid it of evil  spirits who committed “great crimes in the  world.”   His   birth   accounts   vary   somewhat  in Hindu texts. The major myth tells how  Krishna escaped from the slaughter ordered  by his evil uncle King Kamsa (brass) of Bhoja.  The king heard that his cousin Devaki would  have a child who one day would destroy him,  so he ordered that Devaki be killed. Devaki,  however,   convinced   Kamsa   that   she   would  deliver to him all of her children. Taken in by  the promise, Kamsa let Devaki live.  In the meantime in heaven, Vishnu knew  what was to happen and went to the subterra -  nean watery hell. He brought back six embryos  (which were actually six demons) and placed  them in Devaki’s womb. He then placed there  another embryo, which would be his brother  Balarama. (There are variant accounts of the  birth of Balarama.) Kamsa killed each of the  first six offspring. When it was time for the  seventh birth, Devaki seemed to have a miscar -  riage, though in actuality while she was asleep,  the embryo of Balarama was transferred to the  womb of Rohini (red, red cow), the wife of the  sage Vasudeva. Thus, Balarama was born from  Rohini, and Kamsa was no wiser. Devaki, how -  ever, thought all seven of her offspring were  lost. When she was pregnant for the eighth  time, with Krishna, she carefully guarded her -  self. At the same time Yasoda (conferring fame)  also became pregnant. The two gave birth on  the same night, Devaki to Krishna and Yasoda  to a girl. The sage Yasudeva, in order to save  the boy, switched the children, placing Krishna  in Yasoda’s crib. When King Kamsa came and  saw a girl in Devaki’s crib, he was relieved. But  he was still filled with anger and took the child  “by the foot and whirled her around vigor -  ously and dashed her violently to the stone  floor.” Miraculously the child “flew to heaven,  unbruised.”  Krishna’s childhood was filled with wonders.  Once Krishna and his brother Balarama were  playing with some calves. Yasoda, Krishna’s fos -  ter mother, became angry. To stop Krishna she  tied him to a heavy wooden mortar in which  corn is threshed and went on with her work.  Krishna,   trying   to   free   himself,   dragged   it  Krishna  5  6   Kratti

=== 페이지 594 ===
until it became wedged fast between two trees,  which were then uprooted. The trees were two  sons of the god of riches, Kubera, who had  been trapped into the trees and were now free.  Kamsa, the evil uncle, once sent a demon  after Krishna when he was wandering with cat -  tle in the woods. The boy, seeing through the  demon’s disguise, seized him by the foot, swung  him around his head, and dashed him against  the ground. The next day another demon, in  the form of a crane, attacked Krishna, locking  him in its bill. Krishna became so hot that the  crane released him, and then Krishna crushed  its beak under his foot.  On another occasion Krishna challenged  Indra, the storm god. Seeing the cowherds  preparing to pray to Indra for rain, Krishna  told them to worship the mountain instead  because it provided food for their cattle, which  in turn supplied them with milk. Acting on  Krishna’s advice, the cowherds presented to  the mountain “curds, milk and flesh.” This  scheme was really intended to honor Krishna,  for upon the summit of the mountain Krishna  appeared, saying, “I am the mountain.” Indra  became so angry that he attempted to drown  the   people   with   a   rainstorm,   but   Krishna  lifted the mountain and sheltered his worship -  pers. Indra, defeated, later visited Krishna and  praised him for saving the people, and Indrani,  wife of Indra, asked Krishna to be a friend of  their son, the hero Arjuna, who appears in the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata.  In   The Mahabharata,   Krishna appears as  the charioteer of Arjuna, reciting to Arjuna the  Bhagavad-Gita (which forms part of the epic):  “All the Universe has been created by me; all  things exist in me.” Arjuna addresses Krishna  as “the Supreme Universal Spirit, the Supreme  Dwelling, the Eternal Person, Divine, prior  to all the gods, unborn, omnipresent.” In the  poem Krishna possesses a weapon, Sata-ghru  (slaying   hundreds),   which   is   described   as   a  stone set with iron spikes.  Krishna is highly honored as a great lover by  the Indians. The love affairs between the   gopis,  girl cowherds, and Krishna are told of in the  Gita-Govinda,   an erotic love poem by Jayadeva,  written about 1200. In the poem Krishna is  portrayed as an extremely passionate lover of all  the   gopis.   His main love, however, is for Radha,  a married woman. (In some accounts Radha is  said to be an incarnation of Lakshmi, the wife  of Narayana, another incarnation of Vishnu.)  When   Radha’s   sister-in-law   discovered   the  liaison she rushed to tell her brother Ayanago -  sha of his wife’s infidelity. When Ayanagosha  appears, however, Krishna transforms himself  into the goddess Kali (a form of the great god -  dess, Devi), and Ayanagosha thinks his wife is  worshipping the goddess. The   Gita-Govinda  in many ways resembles the Hebrew Song of  Songs. As with the biblical work, Hindus have  given this frankly erotic work a mystical inter -  pretation. An Indian dance, Manipuri, origi -  nating in Manipur in northern India, narrates  the loves of Krishna and the   gopis.   A ballet,  Radha and Krishna,   by Uday Shan-Kar also tells  of the love affair.  On another occasion, when Krishna was  dancing with a woman, the demon Arishata  appeared in the form of a bull, attacking the  party. Krishna seized Arishata by the horns,  wrung his neck as if it had been a piece of wet  cloth, and at last tore off his horns and beat  Arishata to death with them.  Though a god, Krishna met death at the  hands of a hunter, Jaraas (old age), who shot him  with an arrow in the ankle, his only vulnerable  spot. When he died, his spirit went to Goloka,  his paradise. Dwaraka (the city of gates), which  was holy to Krishna and was one of the seven  sacred cities in Hinduism, submerged into the  ocean seven days after his death. (The city is  sometimes called Abdhi-nagari.)  The concept of Krishna as supreme god  came   late   in   Hinduism.   Because   Krishna   is  Vishnu, he is also called Hari, a title of Vishnu.  The form   Hare   in Hare Krishna is the vocative.  See also:   arjuna; avatar; balarama; devi;  indra;   indrani;   kubera;   lakshmi;   mahab -  harata, the ; vishnu  Krishna   5 

=== 페이지 595 ===
Kriss   Kringle   (little   Christ   Child)   In  Germanic folklore a corruption of the German  Christkindl,   who was said to walk through the  streets on Christmas Eve. Children would leave  a candle in the window to light the way and  hope the Christ Child would bring gifts. Now  Kriss Kringle is identified with St. Nicholas or  Santa Claus, not the Christ Child.  See also:   nicholas, st.  Krum-ku-dart-boneit   In Australian myth -  ology, evil spirits who wake men at night, take  control of their bodies, and force them to hop  until they die of exhaustion.  Kshandada-chara   (night walkers)   In Hindu  mythology, evil spirits and ghosts who appear  at night.  Kuang Ch’eng-Tzu   In Chinese legend, a  deified sage, credited with the power of con -  trolling evil spirits and giving victory in war.  He is portrayed standing with his face turned  up and his arms folded, holding a medallion  bearing trigrams from the   I Ching.  See also:   i ching  Kuan Ti   In Chinese mythology, a deified  general, Chang Sheng, worshipped as a god of  war and of literature. He was a native of Shansi  who fled his province after killing an official  for sexually abusing someone. He was joined  by Chang Fei, a butcher, and Liu Pei, a peddler  of straw sandals. Eventually, Kuan Ti was cap -  tured and executed. In 1594 the emperor Wan  Li conferred on Kuan Ti the title “Supporter  of Heaven, Protector of the Realm.” Kuan Ti is  invoked to avert war, not to encourage it.  Kuan-Yin   (Kuanyin, Guanyin; one who hears  sounds, prayers) or   Kuan Shih-Yin   (regarder  of the world’s sounds)   In Chinese and Japanese  Buddhism, spirit of mercy, patron of children.  Kuan-Yin is a Buddhist entity that manifests  itself in whatever form is suitable to rescue  human beings from physical and spiritual dan -  ger. Some forms are male, some are female.  Thirty-three forms are commonly described,  but the number is said to be infinite. Kuan-Yin  is the Sino-Japanese version of the Bodhisattva  Avalokiteshvara (a name of uncertain mean -  ing), who is sometimes worshipped as the chief  minister of Amitabha Buddha and sometimes  worshipped independently. As the minister of  Amitabha, Kuan-Yin is shown as a man, often  kneeling toward the worshipper and offering a  lotus, in which the worshipper will be reborn  in the Western Paradise. As an independent  figure, Kuan-Yin is most commonly depicted  as a male with 11 heads and 1,000 arms (all-  seeing and all-helping) or as a female holding  a lotus, symbol of purity, a jar of healing water,  or a wishing jewel. She may be accompanied  by a child, whom she will give to a woman who  prays to her for offspring.  According to one Chinese myth, Kuan-Yin  was the daughter of an Indian prince. Her  name was Miao Shan, and she was a devoted Kuang Ch’eng-Tzu  5    Kriss Kringle

=== 페이지 596 ===
follower of the Buddha. In order to convert  her blind father, she visited him disguised as  a stranger and informed him that if he swal -  lowed an eyeball of one of his children he  would have his sight restored. None of his  children, when told, would consent to lose  an eye. Miao Shan then miraculously created  an eye, which she fed to her father, restoring  his sight. She then persuaded her father to  become a Buddhist by pointing out the folly  of a world where a child would not sacrifice  an eye for a parent.  In   another   myth   Kuan-Yin   was   on   her  way to enter Nirvana when she paused on its  threshold to listen to the cry of the world. She  decided to stay in the world to teach mankind  compassion and mercy.  An image of Kuan-Yin plays an important  part in the plot of the movie   Three Strangers,  in which a sweepstakes ticket is placed under  the image of Kuan-Yin to bring good luck.  The ticket wins, and each of the three partners  attempts to get all of the winnings—one even  kills another. In the end no one wins.  In Japanese, Kuan-Yin is known as Kwan -  non or Kannon, and in various forms is known  as Sho (the holy), Juichimen (11-faced), Senju  (1,000-handed),   bato   (horse-headed),   and  Nyoirin (she of the wishing wheel).  See also:   amitabha; avalokiteshvara; bod -  hisattva; buddha, the; lotus; nirvana  Kubera   (ugly   body?)   In   Hindu   mythol -  ogy, god of wealth and guardian of the north;  married to Riddhi (prosperity). Kubera was  the brother of the demon king Ravana and  once possessed Lanka (Sri Lanka). However,  his evil brother, Ravana, ousted Kubera and  took control. After Kubera had done severe  penance, he was given the gift of immortality  by Brahma, who appointed him god of wealth.  Brahma also gave Kubera a magic aerial car  called   Pushapaka   (that   of   flowers),   which  contained   within   it   a   city   or   a   palace.   It  was stolen by Ravana but recaptured by the  hero   Rama   and   used   by   him   to   carry   his  wife, Sita, back to their native city, Ayodhya.  Later   Pushapaka   was   returned   to   Kubera.  Pushapaka is also known as Ratna-varshuka  (that rains jewels).  In Indian art Kubera is portrayed as a white  man, having eight teeth, a deformed body, and  three legs. His body is covered with various  ornaments. He receives no worship in Hindu -  ism but is worshipped in Japanese Buddhism.  In Hindu belief Kubera rules over the Yakshas,  semidivine beings, sometimes good and some -  times evil, as well as the Guhyakas (hidden  beings), minor spirits who are guardians of  hidden treasures.  See also:   brahma; buddhism; rama; ravana  Kuda Sembrani   In Malayan mythology, a  magic horse able to swim through water as well  as fly through the air.  K’uei Hsing   In Chinese mythology, a dei -  fied mortal worshipped as a god of literature.  Kuan-Yin  K’uei Hsing   5 

=== 페이지 597 ===
He is portrayed as an ugly man with a sea  dragon, symbol of wisdom.  Kuinyo   In   Australian   mythology,   an   evil  death spirit who gives forth a repulsive odor.  Kukulcán   (Cuculcán, Kukulkán) (the god of  the mighty speech, a serpent adorned with  feathers?)   In the mythology of the Toltecs, an  ancient Nahuatl people of central and southern  Mexico whose culture flourished about 1000  c.e.,   culture hero and god.  One account of Kukulcán’s life was written  by Bartolomé de Las Casas, a Roman Catholic  bishop, in his   Historia apologética de las Indias  Occidentales,   in an attempt to explain Indian  religious belief vis-á-vis Christianity. According  to Las Casas, Kukulcán was a “great Lord” who  arrived at the city of Chichén Itzá from the west  with 19 attendants, all bareheaded and wearing  long robes and sandals. They ordered the people  to “confess and fast,” which the people then did  ritually on Friday. The bishop seems to be try -  ing to show the similarity between Indian beliefs  and Christian ones, and in his work he stresses  the superiority of the latter.  In another account of Kukulcán’s life, found  in an Indian work, the   Books of Chilam Balam,  it is reported that the city of Chichén Itzá was  settled by four brothers who came from the  four cardinal points. They lived “chastely and  righteously” until one left (or died). Two of the  brothers then quarreled and were killed by the  people, leaving only the last, who was Kuku -  lcán. He calmed the people and helped them  build the city.  After he finished his work in Chichén Itzá,  he founded and named the great city of May -  apán, which was to become the capital of the  confederacy of the Mayas. In that city a temple  was built in his honor. After completing his  work Kukulcán journeyed westward to Mexico,  or to some other spot where the sun set. The  people said he had been taken into the heavens,  where he watched over them and from which  he answered their prayers. In Mayan art he  is portrayed with a serpent’s body, a quetzal’s  plumes, a jaguar’s teeth, and a human head  in his jaws. He is usually seated on the cross-  shaped symbol of the compass.  Kukumatz   and   Tochipa   In   North  American   Indian   mythology   (Mojave),   cre -  ators, twin brothers. Born of earth (woman)  and sky (man), the two needed more room and  raised the sky. Then they set the cardinal points  and created the first people. In a variant myth,  Mustamho, the son of a second generation of  earth and sky, created the first people. In a  myth told by the Walapai, part of the Yuman  group that includes the Mojave, the name of  the twins are Hokomata and Tochopa. In their  myth   the   two   brothers   quarrel.   Hokomata,  Kukulcán  5  0   Kuinyo

=== 페이지 598 ===
jealous of his brother, who brought the arts to  humankind, taught men the arts of war. In a  rage Hokomata caused a flood that destroyed  the earth, saving only his daughter, Pukeheh,  in a hollow log, from which she emerged after  the flood. She then gave birth to a boy whose  father was the sun and to a girl whose father  was the waterfall. From these two the earth was  repopulated. In the Mojave variant of the myth,  Mustambho took some people in his arms and  saved them from the flood waters.  Kulhwch and Olwen   Medieval Welsh tale  included in   The Mabinogion.   It tells of the hero  Kulhwch’s love for Olwen, the daughter of the  giant Yabaddaden. The giant assigns tasks for  Kulhwch to complete before he will consent to  give him his daughter in marriage. Kulhwch is  aided by King Arthur. The work is one of the  first Arthurian romances.  See also:   arthur;   mabinogion, the  Kullervo   (gold,   dear   one)   In   the   Finnish  epic poem   The Kalevala   (runes 31–36), a tragic  hero who unknowingly raped his sister, then in  remorse committed suicide.  Kullervo was the son of Kalervo, who had  been slain by his brother Untamo. Only one  pregnant woman of the Kalervo clan survived,  bearing Kullervo at Untamola (Untamo’s farm).  While   he   was   still   in   the   cradle,   Kullervo  planned vengeance on his uncle for the slaugh -  ter of his father and family. Kullervo grew up  strong but stupid. His uncle sent the youth to  the smith Ilmarinen, whose wife, the Maiden of  Pohjola, immediately took a dislike to him. She  gave Kullervo a loaf of bread with a stone in it.  In revenge he had her killed by wild beasts.  Escaping from Ilmarinen’s farm, Kullervo  wandered through the forest, where he met  the Old Woman of the Forest, who informed  him that his father, mother, brothers and sis -  ters were still living. Following her directions,  he found them on the border of Lapland. His  mother told him that she had long supposed  him dead and that his sister, her eldest daugh -  ter, had been lost while gathering berries. The  lad then attempted to do different kinds of work  for his mother but succeeded only in spoiling  everything he touched, so he was sent to pay  the land dues. On his way home Kullervo met  his sister (he did not, however, know it was  she). He dragged her into his sledge and raped  her. Afterward, when his sister learned who he  was, she threw herself into a torrent. Kullervo  rushed home to tell his mother of the tragedy.  She dissuaded him from suicide, telling him to  retire to a retreat where he could recover from  his remorse. But Kullervo resolved to avenge  himself on Untamo, who had murdered his  father, and prepared for war. He left home to  joyous farewells, for no one but his mother was  sorry that he was going to his death. He came  to Untamola and laid waste the whole district,  burning the homestead. On returning home he  found his house deserted and no living thing  about the place but an old black dog, which  accompanied   him   into   the   forest   where   he  went to shoot game for food. While traversing  the forest, he arrived at the place where he had  raped his sister. The memory of his deed came  back to him, and he then killed himself.  The tragic legend of Kullervo inspired one  of   Sibelius’s   greatest   symphonic   works,   the  Kullervo Symphony, written when the com -  poser was 27 years old. Scored for soprano,  baritone, male chorus, and orchestra, it consists  of five movements: (1) an orchestral introduc -  tion; (2) “Kullervo’s Youth”; (3) “Kullervo and  His   Sister,”   for   chorus,   soprano,   and   bari -  tone, portraying the seduction and rape; (4)  “Kullervo Goes to Battle,” another orchestral  section; and (5) “Kullervo’s Death,” for chorus.  The symphony uses the text of   The Kalevala.   It  was Sibelius’s wish that after 1893 his Kullervo  Symphony should not be performed. It was not  played again until 1958, after Sibelius’s death in  1957, and was first recorded in 1971, taking its  place among the most creative and imaginative  late Romantic symphonic works.  See also:   ilmarinen;   kalevala, the ; maiden  of pohjola  Kullervo   5 

=== 페이지 599 ===
Kumara-sambhava   (Kumara’s   occasioning)  In   Hindu   mythology,   an   erotic   poem   by  Kalidasa usually translated as   The Birth of the  War God,   about the love of the god Shiva and  his wife Parvati (a form of the great goddess  Devi) and the subsequent birth of their son  Kumara. Some sections contain explicit sexual  descriptions, and prudish editors have cut them  out of their translations.  See also:   devi; shiva  Kumokums   In   North   American   Indian  mythology   (Modoc)   creator   god.   One   day  Kumokums found himself sitting by Tule Lake  (in northern California) all alone. There was  no land. So Kumokums reached down to the  bottom of the lake and pulled up some mud  and began to form land and the earth. When  he finished that, he created life. Then, growing  tired, Kumokums dug a hole and went to sleep  inside. But it is believed he will awake one day.  See also:   earth diver  Kumu-honua   and   Lalo-honua   (earth  source   and   earth   below)   In   Polynesian  mythology, Hawaiian first man and woman  according to some traditions.  See also:   adam and eve  Kunapipi   In   Australian   mythology,   the  Great Mother goddess who formed the land  from her body, produced children, animals,  and plants, and taught humankind the gift of  language. She is also called Waramurungundju  and Imberombera.  Kuninwa-wattalo   In Australian mythology,  evil spirits who attack at night, strangling their  victims with a cord.  Kuo Tzu-i   (seventh century   c.e. )   In Chin -  ese mythology, a deified mortal worshipped as  the god of happiness, often portrayed in blue  official robes leading his small son, Kuo-ai, to  court.  Kupalo   In Slavic mythology, god of peace,  magic, water, and herbs. After the introduction  of Christianity, Kupalo’s attributes were com -  bined with those of St. John the Baptist, whose  festival was celebrated on the same day as the  pagan god’s, 24 June.  Both water and fire were closely connected  with Kupalo’s worship, which continued after  the coming of Christianity. A straw doll of the  god, dressed in a woman’s gown and decked out  with ribbons and other female ornaments, was  carried in elaborate procession to a river, where  it was bathed or drowned or in some cases  burned. In addition to the god’s role as a water  deity there were rites connecting him to the  worship of trees, herbs, and flowers. Among  the Baltic Slavs, women would cut down a  birch tree, remove its lower branches, dress it  with garlands and flowers, and then sacrifice a  cock to it. No men were allowed to take part  in the ritual.  The fire-flower fern was the god’s main  sacred herb and was believed to control demons,  bring good luck, and make one attractive to  beautiful women. The only problem was that  the fire-flower was guarded by demons and  could be procured only in the forest at midnight,  the hour when the magical flower appeared.  When it appeared, it climbed up the stalk and  burst into flames. If a person then seized the  flower and avoided the demons (who would  appear as monsters), the flower would belong  to the venturesome person. This all took place  on Kupalo’s Night, when trees could move from  place to place and hold conversations. However,  only if one possessed the fire-flower could one  understand the language of the trees.  See also:   cock; john the baptist, st.; lado  and lada  Kurra   In   the   Finnish   epic   poem   The  Kalevala   (rune   30),   companion   of   the   hero  Lemminkainen.  When Lemminkainen wooed the Maiden  of Pohjola, he asked his former comrade-in-  5  2   Kumara-sambhava

=== 페이지 600 ===
arms, Kurra, to join him in an expedition  against   Pohjola,   the   Northland.   However,  Louhi, the evil mistress of Pohjola, sent her  son Pakkanen (Jack Frost) to freeze the hero’s  boat in the lake. The two heroes almost froze  to death, but Lemminkainen, with his pow -  erful charms and invocations, overpowered  Jack Frost, throwing him into a fire. Lem -  minkainen and Kurra then walked across the  ice to the shore, wandered about in the waste  for a long time, and at last made their way  home.  Tiera, another name for Kurra in   The Kalev -  ala,   is a Finnish word for snow caked up under  a horse’s hoof or on a person’s shoe.  See also:   kalevala, the ; louhi; maiden of  pohjola  Kurriwilban   In Australian mythology, a can -  nibalistic female monster, wife of Yaho. She has  an upright horn on each shoulder for piercing  her victims, who are always men. Her husband,  Yaho, kills women.  See also:   yaho  Kururumany   In   the   mythology   of   the  Arawak   Indians   of   the   Guianas,   a   creator  god. Kururumany created man and all good -  ness,   while   Kulimina   created   woman.   One  day Kururumany came down to earth to view  his creation but was displeased to see that  mankind had become corrupt and wicked. As  punishment he took back the gift of eternal life  and gave it to the serpents, lizards, and other  vermin. Though Kururumany was a creator  god, another deity, Aluberi, was preeminent  over him. Aluberi, however, took no interest  in the affairs of man. Kururumany was married  to Wurekaddo (she who works in the dark)  and Emisiwaddo (she who bored through the  earth, perhaps suggesting that she was the  cushi-ant).  Kush   pari   A legendary Armenian winged  spirit in the form of a bird. The name comes  from the Turkish word for bird ( kush ) and the  Persian word for winged spirit ( pari ).  Kvasir   (Kvaser) (spittle)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, the wisest of men; born from spittle when  the Aesir and Vanir gods spit into a caldron. He  was so wise that there was no question he could  not answer. He was killed by the dwarfs Fjalar  and Galar, who wanted his magic powers. After  Kvasir’s death his blood was distilled in the  Odhrerir, the magic caldron, and gave wisdom  and the art of poetry to any who drank it. The  kenning for poetry is “Kvasir’s blood.”  See   also:   aesir-vanir   war;   kenning;  odhrerir  Kwannon   (Kwanyin)   In   Japanese   mythol -  ogy, the name for the Chinese goddess Kuan-  Yin, who in turn is derived from the Mahayana  Buddhist being of mercy, Avalokiteshvara.  See also:   kuan-yin; mahayana  Kwaten   In   Japanese   Buddhist   mythology,  fire god derived from the Hindu god of fire,  Agni, portrayed as a bearded old man with four  arms. He holds a bamboo twig with a few leaves  attached, a water vessel, and a flaming triangle,  and he stands on a large flame. Sometimes he  is dressed in flowing robes or is clad in a tiger  skin. He is one of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese  Buddhist gods and goddesses adopted from  Hindu mythology.  See also:   agni: jiu no o  Kwoiam   In Melanesian mythology, an ugly  child who kills his blind mother when she curses  him for lifting a loop of her hair. He then kills  his relatives and numerous other people, taking  their skulls and decorating them. Eventually, he  grows tired of murder and is turned into stone.  Kwoiam   5  3

=== 페이지 601 ===
6  5  4  Lacedaemon   (lake demon)   In Greek myth -  ology, son of Zeus and Taygeta, the daugh -  ter of Atlas; married to Sparta, the daughter  of Eruotas, by whom he had Amyclas and  Eurydice, the wife of Acrisius. Lacedaemon  introduced   the   worship   of   the   Graces   in  Laconia and built a temple in their honor.  See also:   atlas; eurydice; zeus  Lachesis   (measurer)   In   Greek   mythology,  one of the three Morae (Fates), the others  being Atropos and Clotho. Lachesis measured  out the yarn that represented the span of life.  Lado and Lada   In Slavic mythology, male  and female deities who personified marriage,  mirth,   pleasure,   and   happiness.   The   divine  twins Lado and Lada are one aspect of a qua -  druple fertility deity. The others are Kupalo  (water), Kostromo-Kostrobunko (grain), and  Iarilo (sun). Each aspect has a feminine coun -  terpart. Slavic folklore, under the influence of  Christianity, later equated Lada with the Virgin  Mary. Lada is also the name for Cinderella in  a Slavic version of the folktale, in which she is  portrayed as a princess with a golden star on  her broom.  See also:   cinderella; kupalo; virgin mary  Ladon   (cutter or laurel)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a hundred-headed dragon who guarded  the Golden Apples of the Hesperides; son of  Phorcys (or Typhon) and Ceto. Ladon was  killed by Heracles when the hero went to fetch  the Golden Apples.  See also:   golden apples of the hesperides;  heracles; hesperides; ladon  Lady of Shalott, The   In Arthurian legend,  a maiden who fell in love with Lancelot of the  Lake and died because he did not return the  L  Clotho, Atropos, and Lachesis

=== 페이지 602 ===
love. Tennyson’s poem “The Lady of Shalott”  tells the tale.  See also:   arthur; lancelot of the lake  Lady of the Lake   In Arthurian legend, an  enchantress identified with Nimuë or Viviane  (Vivien), the mistress of Merlin. She is respon -  sible for the imprisonment of Merlin in a tree,  for giving the magic sword to King Arthur, and  for rearing Lancelot as a child. She lived in a  castle in the midst of a lake that was impos -  sible to pass. Lancelot was given to her as a  child, and she plunged him into the magic lake  with her. He was then called Lancelot of the  Lake. She appears in Tennyson’s   Idylls of the  King,   James Branch Cabell’s novel   Jurgen,   E.  A. Robinson’s poem   Lancelot,   and T. H. White’s  novel   The Once and Future King.  See also:   arthur; lancelot of the lake;  merlin; viviane  Laertes   (ant,   wasp)   In   Greek   mythology,  the father (or foster father) of Odysseus; king  of Ithaca; married to Anticlea, daughter of  Autolycus. According to some accounts, Anticlea  was pregnant by Sisyphus when she married  Laertes. Her son was Odysseus. Eventually,  Laertes retired, and Odysseus became king.  Laertes was still alive when Odysseus returned  from his wanderings after the Trojan War. He  joyously received his son and aided Odysseus  in dealing with the relatives of the slain suit -  ors.   Homer’s   Odyssey   (book   11)   and   Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 13) feature Laertes.  See   also:   autolycus; odysseus;   odyssey,  the ; sisyphus  Laestrygones   (begetters   of   forgetfulness?)  In Greek mythology, cannibal giants who sank  11 of Odysseus’s 12 ships and ate the men.  According to Homer’s   Odyssey,   the land where  the Laestrygones lived had very short nights,  so short that the shepherd driving his flock  home   would   meet   another   shepherd   driv -  ing his flock to pasture. The major city was  Telepylus, founded by Lamus, and their king  was Antiphates. The land has been located in  Sicily and at Formiae in central Italy. The land  of the Laestrygones is mentioned in Homer’s  Odyssey   (books   9,   10),   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 14), and Horace’s   Odes   (3.16.34) and is  portrayed in a series of Roman wall paintings.  The eight landscapes were found in 1848 and  are now in the Vatican Library.  See also:   odysseus;   odyssey, the ; ovid  La Fontaine, Jean de   (1621–1695)   French  author of fables, many based on Aesopic sourc -  es. The first volume of   Fables   was published  in 1668 and added to until 1694. Witty and  elegant, La Fontaine’s fables are a mainstay of  French literature. He was elected to the French  Academy in 1683. He also wrote   Contes et novel -  les   (1664–1674), a collection of bawdy verse  tales based on popular   fabliaux   from France and  other parts of Europe.  See also:   aesopic fables Lady of the Lake   (Aubrey Beardsley)  La Fontaine, Jean de   5  5

=== 페이지 603 ===
Lahash   (flaming?)   In   Jewish   folklore,  demonic angel who attempted to snatch away a  prayer of Moses before it could ascend to God.  As punishment Lahash and other angels who  helped him were cast away from the Divine  Presence and bound with fiery chains.  See also:   moses  Laindjung   In Australian mythology, ances -  tral figure, father of Banaidja. He rose out of  the sea at Blue Mud Bay, his face foam-stained  and his body covered with salt water marks.  See also:   banaidja  Laius   (thrush or man of the people or left-  handed one)   In Greek mythology, king of  Thebes; father of Oedipus; husband of Jocasta;  son of Labdacus. An oracle had warned Laius  that he would be put to death by his son,  so when Oedipus was born, he ordered him  killed. A compassionate nurse, unable to kill  Oedipus, exposed him instead, and he was  rescued   and   reached   manhood.   One   day  Oedipus encountered Laius on the road, not  knowing Laius was his father. An altercation  ensued over the right-of-way, and Oedipus  killed   Laius.   The   king   was   buried   at   the  crossroads at the foot of Mount Parnassus, the  place of his murder, by Damisistratus, king of  Plataea.  See also:   jocasta; oedipus  Lakshamana   (endowed with lucky signs)   In  the Hindu epic poem   The Ramayana,   a half  brother of the hero Rama and his constant com -  panion. When Rama was to die, Lakshamana  took his place and drowned himself by walk -  ing into the waters of the Sarayu River. The  gods rained flowers on him and took him to  heaven. Lakshmana’s twin brother was Satru-  ghna (destroyer of foes).  See also:   ramayana, the  Lakshmi   (good fortune)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, wife of the god Narayana (an incarnation  of Vishnu), mother of Kama, and goddess of  good fortune and beauty. Lakshmi is said to  have four arms, but since she is representa -  tive of beauty, she is usually portrayed with  only two. In one hand she holds a lotus. In the  epic poem   The Ramayana,   Lakshmi is called  “the mistress of the worlds   .   .   . born by her  own will, in a beautiful field opened up by the  plough.” Lakshmi is also known as Jaladhija  (ocean born); Lola (the fickle), goddess of for -  tune and therefore especially worshipped by  shopkeepers; and Loka-mata (mother of the  world). The heroine in Delibes’s opera   Lakmé  is named after the goddess.  See also:   kama;   ramayana, the ; vishnu  La Llorona   (weeping woman)   In American  and Mexican folklore, the legend of a woman  who weeps for her lost children may have  existed   since   Aztec   times.   Bernardino   de  Sahagún points out a connection between the  Weeping Woman and the Aztec goddess named  Civacoatl, Chalmecaciuatl, or Tonantzin, who  Lakshmi  5  6   Lahash

=== 페이지 604 ===
is described as wearing a white dress with a  cradle on her shoulders as though she were car -  rying a child. When the goddess mixed among  the Aztec women, she abandoned the cradle. In  it was an arrowhead shaped like an Aztec sacri -  ficial knife. At nightfall the goddess then went  through the streets of the city shrieking and  weeping and then disappeared into the waters  of lakes or rivers.  In   the   legend   in   the   Southwest   of   the  United States two people, sometimes men and  sometimes women, who are out late at night  notice an attractive woman walking near them,  usually near a river or a lake. They decide to  follow her, do so for quite a while, but can  never catch up. When they get close, she sud -  denly seems to be about a half block ahead of  them, but when they decide to give up and start  to turn toward home, the attractive woman  herself turns around. She has the face of a  horse and long, shiny, metallic fingernails. She  then gives a long, piercing cry and disappears,  revealing herself to be La Llorona out looking  for her lost children who had been murdered  or who had drowned in the water of the stream  or lake.  See also:   chalmecaciuatl; coatlicue  lamb   A young sheep. In the ancient Near  East the lamb was often a sacrificial animal,  appearing in both the Old and New Testaments  as   such.   Jesus   is   called   the   Lamb   of   God  (John 1:29) because he was sacrificed. In early  Christian art the 12 Apostles are sometimes  portrayed as 12 lambs. The Book of Revelation  (7:9–17) shows the adoration of the lamb. It is  somewhat ironic that a church synod of Trullo  held in 692 forbade the use of the lamb as a  symbol of Christ.  See also:   agnes, st.; apostle; bible (revela -  tion); john the baptist, st.  Lamech   (wild   man)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,  fifth descendant of Cain; husband of Adah  and Ziilah; father of Jabal, Jubal, and Tubal-  cain, inventors of musical instruments, animal  husbandry,   and   bronze   and   iron   weapons  (Gen. 4:19–22).  See also:   cain and abel; noah  Lamia   (gluttonous,   lecherous)   In   Greek  mythology, a fantastic being that sucked blood  and ate human flesh; often in the form of a  serpent with a woman’s head; daughter of Belus  and Libya. Lamia was a beautiful woman and  a mistress of Zeus, whose children she bore.  When Hera, Zeus’s wife, discovered this, she  killed all the children except for Scylla. In  revenge Lamia decided to become a child-  killer, and as a result of her evil she became a  monster with the ability to remove her eyes at  will. Keats’s poem   Lamia   is based on a story he  found in Burton’s   Anatomy of Melancholy,   which  in turn came from Philostratus (c. 170–240  b.c.e. ) and tells of a young man, Lycius, who  falls in love with Lamia. When Lycius dis -  covers she is a serpent, she flees and he dies.  Originally, Lamia may have been a Libyan  goddess who was debunked by the Achaeans.  Closely connected with Lamia, the Empusae  had sexual intercourse with young men and  sucked their blood while they slept.  See also:   hera; zeus  Lammas   (loaf-mass)   In   British   folklore,  Christian feast held 1 August in which loaves  made from the first harvest were blessed. The  feast became confused with the Feast of St.  Peter in Chains (1 August), when lambs were  taken to church to be blessed, many believing  that it was a “lamb-mass” not a “loaf-mass.”  In some parts of Scotland, menstrual blood  was sprinkled on cows and on the floors of  houses on Lammas Day to protect against evil.  Lleu Law Gyffes’ death on the first Sunday in  August was celebrated with a feast called Lugh-  mass, sometimes confused with Lammas.  See also:   lleu law gyffes; peter, st.  Lancelot   of   the   Lake   (lance,   weaver’s  shuttle?)   In   Arthurian   legend,   one   of   the  noblest   knights   of   the   Round   Table,   lover  Lancelot of the Lake   5 

=== 페이지 605 ===
of Queen Guinever. Legends do not agree  about   Lancelot.   In   most   medieval   tales   he  is the son of King Ban of Benwick and was  called Lancelot du Lac (Lancelot of the Lake)  because the enchantress Lady of the Lake had  plunged him into her magic lake when he was  a child. In almost all tales Lancelot is a great  champion who went in search of the Holy  Grail, and twice he caught sight of it. He was  also the lover of Queen Guinever, the wife of  King Arthur. He became the father of Galahad  by Elaine, after he had been deceived into  thinking he was sleeping with Guinever. When  King Arthur discovered his relationship with  Guinever their two armies fought. Peace was  finally made when Lancelot killed Sir Gwain.  Lancelot came back to court to discover King  Arthur dead and Queen Guinever a nun. He  then became a monk and died. Lancelot appears  in Chrétien de Troyes’s   Lancelot,   Malory’s   Morte  d’Arthur,   Tennyson’s   Idylls of the King,   E. A.  Robinson’s long narrative poem   Lancelot,   and  T. H. White’s   The Once and Future King.  See   also:   arthur;   elaine;   galahad;  guinever; gwain; lady of the lake; round  table  Lang,   Andrew   (1844–1912)   A   Scottish  scholar of folklore, anthropology, and history.  Lang is particularly known for disputing Max  Müller’s philosophy of comparative mythology.  While Brothers Grimm scholars adhere to a  devolutionary premise in folklore, by which  contemporary folklore items are but remains  of an earlier and much greater body of lore,  Andrew Lang was committed to an evolution -  ary process. He argued that folktales are not the  detritus of an ancient mythology but preceded  both heroic sagas and myths and have survived  among the peasant folk. During his lifetime,  Lancelot in Combat   (Louis Rhead)  5    Lang, Andrew

=== 페이지 606 ===
Lang published collections of tales, including  translations   from   other   languages,   and   also  wrote his own tales, such as   The Princess Nobody  (1884),   The   Gold   of   Fairnilee   (1888),   Prince  Prigio   (1889),   Prince Ricardo   (1893), and   Tales of  a Fairy Court   (1907).  See also:   grimm brothers  langsuyar   (Langhui)   In   Malayan   mythol -  ogy, a female demon believed to be the spirit of  a woman who died in childbirth. The original  langsuyar   was a beautiful woman whose child  was stillborn. When she was told that the baby  had become a   potianak,   or   nati-anak,   a demon  in the form of an owl, she clapped her hands  and without further warning “flew whinnying  away to a tree, upon which she perched.”  She is recognized by her green robe, her  long tapering nails (considered a sign of beauty),  and her long jet-black hair, which she lets hang  down to her ankles. She wears her hair long to  cover the hole in the back of her neck through  which she sucks the blood of children. Her  vampirelike   proclivities   can   be   successfully  stopped if you can cut short her nails and hair  and stuff them into the hole in her neck. Then  she will become tame and act like an ordinary  woman. Some legends report   langsuyars   who  have married and had children. But they revert  to their ghastly form and fly off at once into the  dark forest if they see their children dance at a  village festival.  To prevent a dead mother from becoming a  langsuyar,   glass beads are placed in the mouth  of the corpse, a hen’s egg under each armpit,  and needles in the palms. If this is done, the  dead woman cannot open her mouth to shriek,  or wave her arms as wings, or open and shut  her hands to assist in her flight from the grave  in her night-owl form.  See also:   la llorona; vampire  Lan Ts’ai-ho   In Chinese Taoist mythology,  one of the Pa-Hsien, the Eight Immortals. She  often is portrayed in a blue dress with one foot  shod and the other bare. She is the patron of  flower sellers and sometimes is shown holding  a basket of flowers.  See also:   pa-hsien  Lan-yein and A-mong   In Burmese mythol -  ogy, a brother and sister who possessed a magic  drum. The two were happy for a while until  one day Lan-yein, beating the magic drum, got  a porcupine and served it for dinner. A-mong  was wounded by the quills and believed her  brother had intended to kill her. In revenge she  destroyed the magic drum. She left for a vil -  lage, where she married one of the local men.  Lan-yein traveled to China, where he became  “very powerful and very famous, and in the  course of time was chosen Udibwa, or emperor  of China.”  Laocoön   (very   perceptive)   In   Greek   and  Roman   mythology,   priest   of   Apollo   and  Poseidon at Troy; son of Priam and Hecuba.  Laocoön   offended   Apollo   by   marrying   and  profaning the god’s image. In the last year of  the Trojan War he was chosen priest to appease  Poseidon because the Trojans had slain an earlier  priest of the god. When the wooden horse was  brought into Troy, Laocoön hurled a spear at  it, warning the Trojans not to accept the Greek  gift. Laocoön said: “I fear the Greeks, especial -  ly when they bring gifts.” But the Trojans paid  no attention to his warning. While Laocoön  Lan Ts’ai-ho  Laocoön   5 

=== 페이지 607 ===
was sacrificing to Poseidon, Apollo (or Athena)  sent a massive serpent that crushed Laocoön  and his two sons, Antiphas and Thymbraeus,  to death. The Trojans believed it was because  he had hurled the spear at the wooden horse,  and they therefore accepted it into their city.  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book   2)   tells   the   tale.   An  ancient statue group, carved in Rhodes about  25   b.c.e.   and found in the ruins of the Baths of  Titus in 1506, was bought by Pope Julius II for  Laocoön  5  0   Laocoön

=== 페이지 608 ===
the Vatican Museum. The work was admired  by Michelangelo, Bernini, Titian, and Rubens.  El Greco’s   Laocoön   (c. 1601) portrays the scene  with a view of Toledo in the background.  See   also:   aeneid, the ; apollo; athena;  hecuba; poseidon; priam; troy  Laodameia   (tamer   of   people)   In   Greek  mythology, a heroine; daughter of Acastus and  Astydameia; sister of Sthemele, Sterope, and  some unnamed brothers; wife of Protesilaus,  the first Greek killed immediately on landing  at Troy. In her grief Laodameia had a wooden  statue made of her husband and slept with it  every night. At first it was believed she had a  lover, but when the truth was discovered, her  father, Iphiculus, had the statue burned, and  Laodameia cast herself into the flames and  died. Laodameia appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (book  2), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6), and Ovid’s   Heroides  (which influenced Chaucer), where she is the  symbol of a faithful lover. Wordsworth’s poem  “Laodamia” (1814) changes the tale by making  her husband Protesilaus rail against his wife’s  passion   and   call   for   “reason,”   “self-govern -  ment,” and “fortitude.”  See also:   acastus;   iliad, the ;  Laodice   (justice   of   the   people)   In   Greek  mythology,   daughter   of   King   Priam   and  Hecuba. Laodice fell in love with Acamas, son  of the Greek hero Theseus, when he came to  Troy with Diomedes and an embassy to demand  the return of Helen. Laodice contrived to meet  Acamas at the house of Philebia, wife of the  governor of the small town of Troas, which the  Greek embassy visited. Laodice had a son by  Acamas, whom she called Munitus. Afterward  she   married   Helicaon,   son   of   Antenor   and  Telephus, king of Mysia. When Troy was being  destroyed, she threw herself from the top of a  tower, or was swallowed up by the earth. In  some ancient accounts her name is given as  Astyoche. In Homer’s   Iliad   (book 9) Laodice  is   the   name   used   for   Electra,   daughter   of  Agamemnon.  See also:   acamas; agamemnon; electra;  hecuba;   iliad, the ; priam; telephus  Lao Lang   In Chinese mythology, the deified  mortal Chuang Taung, worshipped as the god  of actors. He is portrayed wearing a dragon  crown and dressed in imperial robes. He is  worshipped by actors before a performance  because his patronage permits them to perform  well.  Laomedon   (ruler of the people)   In Greek  mythology, first king of Troy; son of Ilus and  Eurydice; brother of Themiste; married Rhoeo  or Strymo; father of Astyoche, Cilla, Clytius,  Hesione,   Hicetaon,   Lampus,   Priam,   and  Tithonus; also father of Bucolion by Calybe,  a nymph. Zeus sent Apollo and Poseidon to  build the walls of Troy as a punishment for  infringing on his royal rights. They did so, but  Laomedon refused to pay the gods, so Apollo  and Poseidon sent a sea monster to ravage the  land. Laomedon then called on Heracles to  help save Troy and promised to pay him if he  killed the monster. Heracles killed the mon -  ster, but again Laomedon refused to pay. So  Heracles took 18 ships to Troy and destroyed  Laomedon and all his sons except Priam. The  father and sons were buried in a tomb outside  the Scaen gate. It was believed that as long as  the tomb remained intact, Troy would not fall.  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 21), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (books,  2, 9), and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12) all  allude to the tale.  See also:   aeneid, the ; apollo; eurydice;  heracles;   iliad, the ; nymphus; ovid; posei -  don; priam  Lao Tzu   (old philosopher)   (fl. c. 570   b.c.e. )  Chinese philosopher, traditionally considered  founder of Taoism, the philosophy of the Tao  (the way), worshipped as a deity.  Lao Tzu is believed to have been a con -  temporary of Confucius. He was the son of a  high-ranking family, working for some time as  an imperial archivist in Lo-Yang, but he left his  Lao Tzu   5 

=== 페이지 609 ===
position to lead a life of solitude. Many legends  have grown up around his name. He had no  human father, and his mother is said to have  carried him in her womb for 72 years before he  emerged from her left armpit, able to talk.  Lao Tzu’s meeting with Confucius is fre -  quently encountered in Chinese art. After the  meeting Confucius was quite bewildered by  the mystical Lao Tzu. He said, “I know how  the birds fly, how the fishes swim, how animals  run. But there is a dragon. I cannot tell how it  mounts on the wind through the clouds and  flies through the heavens. Today I have seen  Lao Tzu, and I can only compare him with the  dragon.”  What most upset Confucius about Lao Tzu  was his remark to repay “injury with kindness.”  Confucius’ reply was that you give good for  good, and justice for evil. But Lao Tzu said:  “To those who are good to me, I am good, and  to those who are not good to me, I am also  good. And thus all get to be good. To those  who are sincere to me, I am sincere; and to  those who are not sincere with me, I am also  sincere. And thus all get to be sincere.”  According to legend, Lao Tzu planned to  leave society. On the border, a customs official  asked him to write a book before he retired  from the world. So the sage wrote about “the  proper way to live,” the   Tao-te Ching   (Book of  the Tao and Te).  See also:   confucius  Lapiths   (Lapithae) (flint chippers)   In Greek  mythology, a mountain tribe in Thessaly relat -  ed to the centaurs through descent from Ixion.  The Lapiths came to symbolize civilization,  the centaurs, barbarism. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 12) gives a rich description of the bat -  tle   between   the   Lapiths   under   their   king,  Pirithous, and the centaurs at the marriage  feast of Hippodameia. The scene of the battle  was featured in the frieze on the metopes (the  section between the columns and the roof) of  the Parthenon on the west pediment of the  temple of Zeus at Olympia, and in the frieze  of Apollo’s temple at Bassae. Michelangelo did  a sculptured relief of the battle, and Piero di  Cosimo painted the scene.  See also:   centaur; ovid  Meeting of Confucius and Lao Tzu  5  2   Lapiths

=== 페이지 610 ===
Lara,   Infantes   de   (princes   of   Lara)   (10th  century)   In Spanish history and legend, seven  brothers who were killed by their uncle Ruy  Valásquez in 986. The murder was arranged by  Doña Lambra, Ruy’s wife; she had the Moors  perform   the   deed.   The   father   of   the   boys,  Gonzalo Gustos, was then invited to the hall of  King Almanzor, the Moorish leader, to view his  seven dead sons. The Spanish ballad   The Seven  Heads   relates how the father, seeing the horrible  sight, attacks Almanzor and his men and kills  13 of them before being killed himself. Another  Spanish ballad,   The Vengeance of Mudara,   tells  how Mudara, the son of Gonzalez, the young -  est of the seven brothers, avenges the death of  his father by slaying Ruy Valásquez and hav -  ing Doña Lambra stoned to death. Juan de la  Cueva’s play   Tragedia de los Infantes de Lara   and  Angel de Saavedra’s   El Moro Exposito   (the Moor  in danger) deal with the legend.  See also:   ballad  Lares   In Roman mythology, spirits of the  dead, worshipped at crossroads and in homes;  children   of   Acca   Larentia.   Originally,   the  Romans buried their dead in their own houses  until it was forbidden by the laws of the Twelve  Tables. Every house had a   Lar familiaris   who  was the tutelary spirit of the family. His chief  care was to prevent the family from dying out.  The Lares’ image, dressed in a toga, was kept in  the family. The Romans greeted the Lares with  morning prayer and an offering from the table.  At the chief meal a portion was left on the fire  of the hearth for the family spirits. Regular sac -  rifices were offered on the calends, nones, and  ides of every month and at all important family  functions, such as the birthday of the father  of the family. On such occasions the Lares  were covered with garlands, and cakes and  honey were placed before them. Wine, incense,  and animals also were offered up to them.  Outdoors the Lares were honored as tutelary  spirits. At the crossroads ( compita ) there were  always two   lares compitales   or   vicorum,   one for  each of the intersecting roads. They were hon -  ored by a popular festival called Compitalia,  held four times a year. The emperor Augustus  added the   Genius Augusti,   and commanded that  two feasts be held in honor of these divinities  in May and August. In addition, there were  the   Lares   proestites,   belonging   to   the   whole  city. They were invoked with the mother of  the Lares and called Lara, Larunda, or Mania.  They had an altar and temple in Rome. The  Lares were invoked as protectors on a journey,  in the country, in war, and on the sea, and they  were associated with the Penates, guardians of  the household stores. In contrast to the good  Lares were the evil spirits, the Larvae.  See also:   penates  Latimikaik   In Micronesian mythology, cre -  ator goddess who arose from a wave-beaten  rock along with her husband, Tpereakl.  Latinus   In Greek and Roman mythology,  king of the Latini in Italy; son of Odysseus and  Circe, according to Hesiod’s   Theogony,   or son of  Faunus and Marica, according to Vergil’s   Aeneid  (books 7–11). In Vergil’s account Latinus takes  no part in the war between Aeneas and Turnus,  though he arranges for a duel between the two  to see who will marry his daughter Lavinia.  Latinus also appears in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 13) and Livy’s   History of Rome.  See   also:   aeneid,   the ; faunus; hesiod;  odysseus  laurel   An evergreen tree or shrub encom -  passing many varieties such as sassafras and  cinnamon. In Greek mythology, the nymph  Daphne, who refused Apollo’s love, was trans -  formed into a laurel tree. The tree was sacred  to Apollo and his priestesses at Delphi; they  chewed the leaves to bring on their oracular  powers, or placed them under the pillow to  acquire inspiration. Champions at the Pythian  games, held in honor of Apollo’s victory over  the monster Python, were crowned with laurel  wreaths. In Christianity the laurel is associated  with triumph, eternity, and chastity and is a  laurel   5  3

=== 페이지 611 ===
symbol of the Virgin Mary. St. Gudule carries  a laurel crown. In English folklore, if two lov -  ers pluck a laurel twig and break it in half, each  keeping a piece, they will always be lovers.  See also:   apollo; daphne; virgin mary  Laverna   In Roman mythology, goddess of  thieves and dishonest Romans; her altar was at  the gate of Laverna in Rome. She was generally  portrayed as a head without a body.  Lavinia   In Roman mythology, second wife of  Aeneas; daughter of King Latinus and Amata.  She was betrothed to her relative Turnus, but  an oracle had said she was to marry a foreign  prince. When Aeneas killed Turnus, Lavinia’s  father gave her to Aeneas. After Aeneas’s death,  she fled the tyranny of Ascanius, her son-in-  law, and gave birth to a son, Aeneas Sylvius.  Lavinia appears in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (books 6, 7)  and in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 14).  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the ; latinus; ovid  Lawrence,   St.   (from   Laurentium,   a   city  in   Latium,   a   few   miles   from   Rome)   (third  century)   In   Christian   legend,   patron   saint  of brewers, confectioners, cooks, schoolboys,  students, washerwomen, and glaziers; patron of  Nuremberg and Genoa. Feast, 10 August.  Lawrence was a deacon of the church who  gave away its “treasures” to the poor. He was  arrested by the pagan Romans, and when asked  where the treasures were, he refused to answer  and was “stretched out upon a gridiron .   .   .  burning coals under, and held .   .   . with forks  of iron,” according to   The Golden Legend,   a  collection of saints’ lives written in the 13th  century by Jacobus de Voragine. Lawrence is  often portrayed dressed in a deacon’s vestment,  either standing or holding the gridiron, with a  censor, palm, or book in the other hand. The  phrase “lazy as Lawrence” is said to have origi -  nated when Lawrence was being roasted over a  slow fire and asked to be turned, “for that side  is quite done.” His torturers interpreted this as  the height of laziness.  See also:   golden legend, the  Lay of Igor’s Army, The   Anonymous Rus -  sian epic in rhythmic prose believed to have  been written in the 12th century.  The Lay of Igor’s Army   is considered one of  the monuments of early Russian literature and  is placed beside such world epics as the Ger -  man   Nibelungenlied   and the French   Chanson de  Roland,   though it is closer in feeling to the Finn -  ish epic poem   The Kalevala.   The 16th-century  manuscript of the work was first published in  1800 with a translation into modern Russian,  but the manuscript was destroyed in the burning  of Moscow during Napoleon’s invasion in 1812.  Some scholars doubt that the poem is a genuine  work of the Middle Ages, assigning it to some  clever forger, though the majority of scholars  now accept it as genuine. The lay tells of an  St. Lawrence   (Albrecht Dürer)  5  4   Laverna

=== 페이지 612 ===
unsuccessful invasion by Prince Igor against the  Polovtzi, or Cumanians, and combines refer -  ences to both Christian and pagan elements.  The epic reflects the political atmosphere at a  time when the people were calling for curbing  the autocratic powers of their rulers.  Another   Russian   medieval   work,   gener -  ally   called   the   Zadonshchina,   celebrates   the  1380 defeat of Russia’s Tartar overlords by  the armies of Dmitri Donskoy, grand prince  of Moscow, and quotes passages from   The Lay  of Igor’s Army,   implying that Dmitri’s victory  avenges Igor’s earlier defeat.  Alexander   Borodin,   one   of   the   “Mighty  Five” of Russian music, composed an opera,  Prince Igor,   based on the epic. The famous  Polovtzian Dances,   which are often performed in  concert, are from the second act of the opera.  They were also used for a ballet,   Prince Igor,   by  Michel Fokine. Borodin’s score was never com -  pleted, and Rimsky-Korsakov and Alexander  Glazunov prepared the work for production.  Anatol Liadov’s symphonic poem   Ballad, In Old  Days   was inspired by the epic.  In Russian   The Lay of Igor’s Army   is called  Slovo o polku Igoreve   and may be variously trans -  lated as The Lay of Igor’s Campaign, The Lay  of Igor’s Host, and The Lay of the Host of Igor.  The novelist Vladimir Nabokov published an  English translation,   The Song of Igor’s Campaign.  See also:   chanson de roland ;   kalevala,  the ;   nibelungenlied  Lazarus   (God my help)   In the Bible, N.T.,  the name of the beggar in the parable of the  Rich Man and Lazarus (Luke 16:19–31) and  Lazarus Raised from the Dead   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Lazarus   5  5

=== 페이지 613 ===
the name of the brother of Mary and Martha  of Bethany and a good friend of Jesus. When  he died, Jesus brought him back to life (John  11:1–57). In medieval Christian legend Lazarus  went with Mary, his sister, to Gaul after the  Crucifixion   and   became   the   first   bishop   of  Marseilles, where he was later martyred. He is  believed by some to have been the first bishop  of Kition in Cyprus.  Leah   (wild cow)   In the Bible, O.T., “tender-  eyed” oldest daughter of Laban; sister of Rachel;  wife of Jacob; mother of Reuben, Simeon, Levi,  Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun. Through deceit  by Laban, Leah was substituted in Jacob’s mar -  riage bed in place of Rachel, whom Jacob want -  ed to marry. For justification Laban explained  to Jacob that Rachel was younger than Leah  and could not be given in marriage before her  older sister. Though Jacob loved Rachel best, it  was Leah who bore most of his children, Rachel  being barren until later in life.  See also:   jacob  Leanhaun Shee   (fairy lover)   In Irish folklore,  the fairy mistress who seeks the love of mortals. If  they refuse, she becomes their slave; if they con -  sent, they are hers and can escape only by find -  ing another to take their place. The Leanhaun  Shee leeches her captives like a vampire, and the  mortals waste away. Death is no escape from her.  According to William Butler Yeats in   Irish Folk  Stories and Fairy Tales,   “She is the Gaelic muse,  for she gives inspiration to those she persecutes.  The Gaelic poets die young, for she is restless,  and will not let them remain long on earth—this  malignant phantom.”  See also:   melusine; vampire  Lear, King   (Leir, Lir)   In medieval British  mythology,   king   of   Britain,   son   of   Bladud;  his legend is told in Geoffrey of Monmouth’s  History of the Kings of Britain.   In this version of  the legend, Lear was not defeated by his evil  daughters and sons-in-law. Instead “Lear led  the assembled host together with Aganippus  and his daughter [Cordelia] into Britain, fought  a battle with his son-in-law, and won the vic -  tory, again bringing them all under his own  dominions. In the third year thereafter he died,  and Aganippus died also, and Cordelia, now  mistress of the helm of state in Britain, buried  her father in a certain underground chamber.”  Cordelia   ruled   the   kingdom   for   some   five  years, and then two sons of her sisters attacked  and imprisoned her, and she committed sui -  cide. Shakespeare’s   King Lear   is believed to be  based on Holinshed’s   Chronicles,   which varies  the tale, as does Shakespeare’s play, to bring  out the drama. Jane Smiley’s novel   A Thousand  Acres   (1994) places the story of Lear on a farm  in Iowa, where the father is king over his  daughters, with whom he commits incest.  Lebe   In African mythology (Dogon of the  Republic of Mali), first ancestor to die. The  Dogon have two categories of ancestors: those  who lived before Death entered the world and  thus are immortal, and those who came after  Death appeared and are thus mortal.  When Amma, the creator god, finished the  creation of the eight basic families, he then  turned   his   attention   to   the   organization   of  man’s existence on earth. Lebe was required  to feign death, and orders were given for him  to be buried with his head pointing toward the  north. The seventh ancestor, taking the form  of a snake, swallowed his body and then vom -  ited stones that fell into a pattern representing  a human body. This arrangement of stones  was believed to determine the nature of social  relationships, especially marriages. The stones  are regarded as a manifestation of the covenant  between Amma and Lebe, who although not  truly dead, pretended to be so that man might  be given a life force. The shape of the Dogon  home is symbolic. The door opens to the north,  the direction in which Lebe’s head pointed.  Various features of the home are fraught with  sexual implications: the ceiling, for example,  is seen as male and the large central room  as female. The flat roof is representative of  heaven, and the earthen floor’s significance is  that Lebe was both buried and restored to life  5  6   Leah

=== 페이지 614 ===
in the earth. The relationship of the ceiling to  the floor is symbolic of the original union of  god with earth.  Leda   (lady?)   In   Greek   mythology,   an  Aetolian princess, daughter of Thestius and  Eurythemis;   later   queen   of   Sparta;   wife   of  Tyndareus; mother of Clytemnestra, Helen,  Castor, and Polydeuces (the Dioscuri). The  best-known   version   of   her   myth   says   that  Zeus, in the form of a swan, seduced Leda,  who hatched Helen and Polydeuces from an  egg,   Castor   and   Clytemnestra   having   been  fathered by Tyndareus. Leda and the Swan was  a popular motif in both ancient and modern  times. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11), Euripides’  Leda and the Swan  Leda   5 

=== 페이지 615 ===
Helen,   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6), Spenser’s  Faerie   Queene   (111.11.32)   and   Prothalamium  (41), Keat’s   Endymion   (1.157), Yeats’s “Leda and  the Swan,” Aldous Huxley’s   Leda,   and Rilke’s  “Leda” are some of the works that have dealt  with the subject. Painters who have treated  Leda are Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci,  Raphael, Tintoretto, and Correggio.  See   also:   castor   and   polydeuces;  dioscouri; helen of troy;   odyssey, the ; ovid;  zeus  leek   An   onionlike   vegetable.   The   ancient  Egyptians considered the leek sacred, viewing  it as a symbol of the universe, each successive  layer or skin of the vegetable corresponding  to the layers of heaven and hell. The Hebrews  in their Exodus from Egypt, mentioned leeks  among the foods they missed (Num. 11:5). In  Roman belief, the leek was a symbol of virtue  and sacred to Apollo, whose mother, Latona,  longed for leeks. In Welsh legend, St. David,  a sixth-century bishop, ordered his men to put  leeks on their heads to distinguish themselves  from their Saxon enemies during a decisive  battle. The Welsh won and credited the vic -  tory to the saint’s move. In Welsh tradition, it  was the custom before plowing for the workers  to share a common meal in which each had  contributed a leek. In Shakespeare’s   Henry V  (IV, vii) Pistol ridicules the custom and is then  forced to “eat the leek,” a term that has come  to mean to eat one’s words.  See also:   apollo; david, st.  Le-eyo   In   African   mythology   (Masai   of  Kenya), ancestor who lost the gift of immor -  tality for humankind. Le-eye was told by God  that when a child was being buried he was  to repeat: “Man dies but returns to life; the  moon dies but does not return to life.” This,  God told Le-eye, would ensure the rebirth of  a person after death. When a child’s body was  being buried, Le-eye rushed to say the words,  but in his confusion he said: “Man dies but does  not return to life; the moon dies but returns  to life.” When his own child died, he tried to  use the correct charm, but he had forfeited the  chance to restore his child to life.  Legba   (Leba,   Legua,   Liba)   In   African  mythology (Fon of Benin), trickster of entranc -  es and crossroads, the youngest son of the cre -  ator, often portrayed as the cosmic phallus or  pictured looking at his genitals. One myth tells  how Legba and God, his father, lived on earth  together in the beginning of time. Legba did  only what God told him to do, but the people  blamed Legba when something bad occurred  and credited God for the good things that hap -  pened in life. Legba felt that this was an unfair  situation. Why should he be blamed for evil?  But God said that was how it had to be. One  day Legba tricked God by wearing his father’s  sandals while stealing yams from God’s garden.  When a search for the thief was conducted,  Legba suggested that God must have taken the  yams in his sleep. God knew that Legba was  trying to deceive him, so he went into the sky,  telling Legba to visit him at night and describe  what happened each day on earth.  In a variant myth Legba directed an old  woman to throw her dirty wash water into  the sky. This angered God, who went back to  heaven, leaving Legba on earth to report to  him the activities of man.  Legba is associated with the oracle of Fa.  Each morning Legba climbed into a palm tree  and opened Fa’s eyes. A system was developed  whereby Legba knew if Fa wanted only one or  both of his eyes opened. God eventually told  Legba to teach men the method of Fa divina -  tion so that they could consult the oracle on  their own and in this way come to know their  destinies.  Worship of Legba is also found in Suri -  name, Brazil, Trinidad, and Cuba and in the  voodoo, or   voudun,   cult in Haiti and New  Orleans. In Haitian voodoo mythology Legba  is a “principle of life,” and his symbol indicates  both masculine and feminine attributes, mak -  ing him a sign of totality. He is the guardian  5    leek

=== 페이지 616 ===
of   the   sacred   gateway,   the   Grand   Chemin,  the road leading from the finite world to the  spiritual one, and he is often addressed in rites  thus: “Papa Legba, open the gate .   .   . open the  gates so that we may pass through.” Some sects  called the red sects, the voodoo cult represent -  ing the demonic forces in the world, believe  that Legba was actually Jesus. Legba was hung  on a cross, they contend, to serve as an edible  human sacrifice—which, they point out, is what  is meant by the words used in the Catholic  Mass: “This is my Body.   .   .   . This is my Blood.”  Priests on the island of Haiti, however, use the  name Legba as an equivalent for the devil.  See also:   fa; trickster; voodoo  Leib-olmai   In   Lapland   mythology,   bear  spirit worshipped by the Scandinavian Lapps.  Leibolmai protected the bear, who was a holy  animal, during the hunt. Only if proper prayers  were made to him by the hunters would he  allow them to catch the animal.  Leif   Ericsson   (c. 970–1020)   In American  history and legend, son of Eric the Red, who,  according to some accounts, discovered part  of North America. According to one account,  given in the   Saga of Eric the Red,   Leif Ericsson  was blown off his course during a voyage from  Norway to Greenland and landed in a place  called Vinland. Legend has it that Thorfinn  Karlsefni and his wife, Gudrid, also sailed to  Vinland and resided in Leif’s house. While  they lived there, Gudrid gave birth to a son,  and they named him Snorri. He was the first  European child to be born in the New World.  During the 19th century there was a move -  ment among Americans to prove that the saga  and other accounts established that the Vikings  landed   on   American   soil   before   Columbus.  Many scholars today believe that Leif landed  on some part of the North American coast, but  there is no agreement as to what part. In 1974  Yale University, owner of the Vinland Map,  which indicated that Leif Ericsson discovered  America, announced that the map was a fake.  Longfellow’s   literary   ballad   The   Skeleton   in  Armor   about a mysterious tower in Touro Park,  Newport, Rhode Island, accepts the structure  as having been made by the Vikings. This belief  is now generally discredited. Edison Marshall’s  novel   The Viking   is based on Longfellow’s bal -  lad. Gerard Tonning’s opera   Leif Erikson   is in  Norwegian.  Lei Kung   In Chinese mythology, a thunder  god portrayed as an ugly, black, bat-winged  demon with clawed feet, a monkey head, and  an eagle beak. He holds a steel chisel in one  hand and a hammer in the other.  Leippya   In   Burmese   mythology,   the   soul  materializing as a butterfly that hovers about  the body of the dead. During life, if the soul  leaves the body, a person will become sick and  die. Sickness is believed to be caused by wan -  dering souls under the control of some evil per -  son or witch. If a mother dies, she may come  back as a spirit and attempt to steal the soul of  her child. To avoid this, a mirror is placed near  the child, and a film of cotton is draped on it. If  the film slips down into a kerchief placed below  the mirror, it is then laid on the child’s breast,  and the soul of the child is saved from its evil  mother. The soul of King Mindon Min, who  Lei Kung  Leippya   5 

=== 페이지 617 ===
died in 1878, lived in a small, flat, heart-shaped  piece of gold that was suspended over his body  until burial.  Lemminkainen   (lover boy)   In the Finnish  epic poem   The Kalevala,   handsome hero noted  for his romantic and heroic exploits.  Lemminkainen’s   love   life   forms   a   good  deal of the narrative in   The Kalevala.   One of  Lemminkainen’s first feats was to find a wife  among the women on the island of Saari. At  first they mocked him, so Lemminkainen, in  anger, carried off Kyllikki to be his wife. She,  obviously a woman who liked to have a good  time, reproached him for his fighting, and he  reproached her for her loose life. The two  agreed, however, that he would not go to war  and she would not go to the village dances.  Howeer, Kyllikki forgot her promise. Lem -  minkainen then left her and went in search of  another wife.  Lemminkainen went to the land of Pohjola,  the Northland, where he wooed the Maiden of  Pohjola. Her mother, Louhi, the evil mistress  of Pohjola, set tasks for the hero. He accom -  plished all of them, except for killing the swan  floating on the River of Death. While he was  attempting to kill the swan, a partly blind cattle  herder, Markahattu, murdered Lemminkainen  because   earlier   the   hero   had   insulted   him.  Lemminkainen’s body was cut into pieces by  the son of Tuoni (Death).  Lemminkainen’s   mother   learned   of   her  son’s death when his comb began to bleed. She  hastened to Pohjola, asking Louhi what had  happened. Louhi told her the tasks she had set  Lemminkainen. Paiva (the sun) then told her  how Lemminkainen had died. She went with a  long rake in her hand under the cataract in the  River of Death and raked the water till she had  collected all of the fragments of her son’s body.  She then joined them together through magic  charms and salves.  The Maiden of Pohjola was then given to  the smith hero, Ilmarinen, who had forged the  magic sampo for Louhi. Enraged at not being  invited to the marriage, the resurrected Lem -  minkainen went to Pohjola and entered the  castle by force, killing the husband of Louhi.  When he returned to his home, he dis -  covered   his   house   burned   down   by   raiders  from   Pohjola,   though   his   mother   was   still  alive. Lemminkainen again went to Pohjola  with his companion, Kurra, though they were  defeated by the cold. He joined Vainamoinen  and Ilmarinen on their adventure to steal the  magical sampo, which, however, was lost in the  lake, with only fragments coming to the top of  the water.  Lemminkainen is often called Lieto (reck -  less) and Kaukomieli (handsome man with a  farroving mind). He is also called Ahto, the  name of the sea god in   The Kalevala,   perhaps  indicating that once he was a god.  These adventures appealed to Sibelius, who  composed   Four Legends for Orchestra   based on  Lemminkainen’s romantic and heroic exploits.  The symphonic suite consists of four move -  ments: (1) “Lemminkainen and the Maidens  of Saari,” dealing with Lemminkainen’s seduc -  tion of all of the women on the island; (2)  “The Swan of Tuonela,” which captures the  majestic swan floating on the River of Death;  (3)   “Lemminkainen   in   Tuonela,”   the   hero’s  mother   restoring   her   son   to   life   after   his  murder; and (4) “Lemminkainen’s Homeward  Journey.” Sibelius also composed three piano  pieces called   Kyllikki,   evoking the legend of  Lemminkainen’s marriage to Kyllikki.  See   also:   kalevala, the ; kurra; louhi;  maiden of pohjola; sampo; swan; tuoni  Lempi   (erotic)   In   Finnish   mythology,   per -  sonification of erotic love; father of the hero  Lemminkainen   in   the   Finnish   epic   poem  The   Kalevala.   In   the   epic   the   mythical   bay  Lemmenlahti (rune 18) is a combination of  Lempi   and   lahti   (bay), suggesting that it was a  trysting place for lovers. Lempi’s wife, the moth -  er of Lemminkainen, is not named in the epic.  Though Lempi was originally a man’s name,  it is usually given to women today. The female  600   Lemminkainen

=== 페이지 618 ===
counterpart of Lempi is Sukkamielli (frenzied  love).  See also:   kalevala, the ; lemminkainen  Lemures   (ghosts)   In   Roman   mythology,  evil spirits of the dead who often appeared as  skeletons and were known to strike the living  with madness. To expel them from the house,  expiatory rites were held on 9, 11, and 13 May.  This three-day period was called Lemuria or  Lemuralia. According to Roman belief, the  feast was first instituted by Romulus to appease  the   ghost   of   his   murdered   brother   Remus  and was called Remuria, later corrupted to  Lemuria. During the three days of the rites the  temples were closed and marriages prohibited.  It was the custom for the people to throw black  beans on the graves of the dead or to burn the  beans, as the smell of the burning beans was  believed to make the ghosts flee. Ovid’s   Fasti  (book 5) tells of the various customs associated  with the feast.  See also:   ovid; romulus and remus  lentil   Leguminous plant with edible seeds,  an ancient food. The Hebrew Book of Genesis  (25:29–34) tells how Esau sold his birthright to  his brother Jacob for a bowl of lentil pottage. In  one of the many versions of   Cinderella,   a folk -  tale found throughout the world, Cinderella is  often portrayed as having to pick lentils out of  the ashes. In India there is a saying: “Rice is  good, but lentils are life.”  See also:   cinderella; esau; jacob  Leonard, St.   (strong as a lion)   (sixth century)  In Christian legend, patron saint of prisoners,  captives, slaves, cattle, and domestic animals.  Feast, 6 November.  Popular during the Middle Ages, Leonard’s  life is told in   The Golden Legend,   a collection of  saints’ lives written in the 13th century by Jaco -  bus de Voragine. Leonard was a favorite of the  king of France. Whenever he visited, he would  ask the king to release a prisoner, and the king  always complied. Becoming dissatisfied with  court life, Leonard went to preach in the for -  est. One day the king came through the area,  accompanied by his pregnant queen. Suddenly  the queen began to have labor pains. When  Leonard heard her voice, he prayed to God  to ease her delivery. The king was so pleased  that he offered “many gifts of gold and silver,”  but Leonard “refused them all, and exhorted  the king to give them to the poor.” The king  then offered him the whole forest, but Leonard  chose just enough land to build a monastery  on. He called it Nobiliacum because it “had  been given by a noble king.”  It was once believed that any prisoner who  invoked the name of Leonard would immedi -  ately find himself free. He is usually depicted in  art as a deacon holding chains or broken fetters  in his hands.  See also:  golden legend ,  the ; lion  leopard   A large, ferocious, spotted carnivore  of the cat family, usually having a tawny color  with black markings. In Greek and Roman  mythology   the   leopard   was   associated   with  Dionysus   and   Bacchus,   the   god   having   his  chariot drawn by the animal. In his poem “Ode  to a Nightingale” Keats says he prefers to be  carried on the “viewless wings of Poesy” rather  than be “charioted by Bacchus and his pards.”  In medieval Christian folklore and symbol -  ism the leopard represented cruelty, sin, lust,  luxury, the devil, or the Antichrist, depending  on the context. In one massive medieval mural  of the Last Judgment the leopard is shown  devouring the bodies of the damned. Often in  Renaissance paintings the leopard is portrayed  accompanying the Magi, who have come to  honor the Christ child, as a symbol of the  chained devil, eventually destroyed by Christ.  In Dante’s   The Divine Comedy   (Hell, canto 1)  the poet is met by a leopard as he attempts to  climb the hill of enlightenment. Most com -  mentators on Dante see the animal as a symbol  of his lust or luxury.  The   panther,   a   black   leopard,   was   one  symbol of Christ in the Christian Middle Ages  leopard   60 

=== 페이지 619 ===
because it was believed the animal slept for  three days and then emerged from its den with  a roar. It was also believed that the panther’s  breath enticed all animals except the dragon.  The dragon would flee to its den and fall  asleep. The panther’s sweet breath was seen as  a symbol of the Holy Spirit, which came forth  from Christ. This gift pleased the whole world  except the dragon, who was the devil, and  therefore he fled to hell.  See also:   bacchus; dionysus; dragon; magi  leprechaun   (Leprecaun, Luchorpain) (small  body?)   In Irish folklore, a small roguish elf.  The leprechaun is noted for his knowledge of  hidden treasure and his work on shoes. William  Allingham, in his poem “The Leprecaun, or,  Fairy Shoemaker,” tells how he came upon a  leprechaun working on a pair of shoes. The  leprechaun was:  A wrinkled, wizen’d, and bearded Elf,  Spectacles stuck on his pointed nose,  Silver buckles on his hose,  Leather apron—shoe in his lap  Just when the poet appears to have captured  the leprechaun, the elf offers a pinch from his  snuffbox and then flings the dust in the poet’s  face; the poet sneezes while the leprechaun  escapes. The American musical   Finian’s Rain -  bow   (1947) features leprechauns.  See also:   brownie; cluricane; far darria  Lesbos   The island of Lesbos was the birth -  place   of   the   poet   Sappho.   The   word   les -  bian   comes from a Victorian interpretation of  Sappho’s poetry, which was thought to portray  sexual love rather than Platonic love between  the poet and other women. Today, the island of  Lesbos, and especially the town of Eresos, are  often visited by lesbian tourists.  See also:   aphrodite; ovid; phaon  leshy   (Lesiy, Lesiye, Lesovik) (forest spirit)  In Slavic folklore, a mischievous forest spirit  who can assume any shape. His skin is tinged  with blue because of his blue blood, and it  is as rough as tree bark. Sometimes he is  depicted with horns and cloven hooves. He  always wears his shoes on the wrong feet, and  he casts no shadow. Said to be the offspring  of a demon and a woman, a   leshy   will some -  times seduce a girl and take her to the forest,  where he rapes her. Occasionally, a   leshy   will  substitute an ugly spirit child for a real one.  At the beginning of October the   leshies   disap -  pear, indicating that they have died or gone  into some type of hibernation, to reappear the  next spring. Some Slavic folktales say the   leshy  marries. His wife is called Leshachikha and  his children,   keshonki.   Béla Bartók’s ballet   The  Wooden Prince   uses some of the Slavic beliefs  about   leshies   in its plot.  Lessing,   Gotthold   Ephraim   (1729–1781)  German playwright who also wrote and pub -  lished a collection of fables in 1759. Like his  contemporary Christian Fürchtegott Gellert,  Lessing produced fables in verse that were  intended for the bedside table. Their sources  were Aesopic fables as well as those of other  German writers of the genre.  See also:   aesopic fables  Lethe   (forgetfulness)   In Greek and Roman  mythology,   river   of   forgetfulness   in   Hades  (the underworld). In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6)  the souls of the dead gather there to drink  before they are reborn. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 11) mentions Lethe as a river flowing  around the Cave of Sleep, where its murmur -  ing induces drowsiness. This passage in Ovid  influenced Chaucer in his   Book of the Duchess  as well as Spenser’s description of Morpheus  in   The Faerie Queene   (book 1). In   The Divine  Comedy   Dante says drinking the water of the  river frees the souls from remembrance of their  past sins. This image is used by Shakespeare in  Henry IV   when the new King Henry says: “May  this be wash’d in Lethe and forgotten?” (Part II  5.2.72). Keats twice uses Lethe to mean death  602   leprechaun

=== 페이지 620 ===
of the senses, in “Ode to a Nightingale” and  “Ode to Melancholy.”  See also:   aeneid, the;   chaucer; hades  Leto   In Greek mythology, mother of Apollo  and Artemis by Zeus; daughter of the Titans  Coeus and Phoebe. Leto was called Latona by  the Romans. According to Hesiod’s   Theogony  (406), Leto was the “dark-robed and ever mild  and gentle” wife of Zeus before he was wedded  to Hera. But according to a later account, Leto  was the mistress of Zeus after he was married  to Hera. The Homeric   Hymn to Apollo   (attrib -  uted to Homer but not by him) tells how the  goddess was pursued by the hatred of Hera but  finally, with the aid of Poseidon, gave birth to  Dante Submerged in the River of Lethe   (Gustave Doré)  Leto   603

=== 페이지 621 ===
her twins, Apollo and Artemis, on the island  of Delos, which had been a floating island  until that time but was thereafter permanently  anchored in honor of the nativity of the twins.  When   Niobe   said   her   children   were   more  beautiful than Leto’s, the goddess had Apollo  and Artemis destroy all of Niobe’s children.  When the giant Tityus attempted to rape Leto,  he was cast into the underworld forever. Leto  also appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (book 21) and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6).  See   also:   apollo; artemis; delos; hera;  niobe; ovid; poseidon; titans; zeus  lettuce   Salad vegetable with edible leaves;  in European folklore, believed to cause steril -  ity. In some parts of England a head of let -  tuce in the kitchen was thought to render the  woman of the house childless. Lettuce also was  believed to alleviate lung disease. Its leaf, simi -  lar in shape to a lung, was considered beneficial  in sympathetic medicine. To eat a head of let -  tuce before or during a sea voyage would pre -  vent seasickness and ward off storms. In North  American Indian belief, lettuce tea was given to  a woman after childbirth to increase the flow  of milk in her breast. Lettuce was eaten by the  Egyptian god Set to make him potent; he kept a  lettuce garden, from which he ate every day. In  the Grimms’ tale Rapunzel, the father is guilty  of stealing a kind of lettuce called Rapunzel.  See also:   set  Leucippus   (white stallion)   In Greek myth -  ology, king of Messenia, son of Perieres and  Gorgophone.   His   daughters,   Hilaera   and  Phoebe, called Leueippides, were abducted by  Castor and Pollux. Idas and Lycceus, broth -  ers of the two girls, fought to rescue them.  Castor was killed, but Polydeuces (Pollux) was  allowed by the gods to stand proxy for him in  the underworld on alternate days. The myth  is told in Pindar’s   Nemean Ode 10.   Rubens’s  painting   The Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus  illustrates the myth. Leucippus is also the name  of a son of Oenomaus and Euarete, brother of  Hippodameia. He dressed as a woman to get  closer to Daphne, whom Apollo loved. Daphne  and her followers, on discovering the trick,  killed Leucippus with Apollo’s darts.  See also:   apollo; castor and polydeuces;  daphne; leucippus  Leucothea   (white goddess)   In Greek myth -  ology, the sea goddess Ino (she who makes sin -  ewy), daughter of Cadmus; wife of Athamas and  Harmmia; sister of Agave, Autonoë, Polydorus,  and Semele. When her husband Athamas, king  of Orchomenus, was driven insane by Hera,  he thought that Ino was a lioness and that his  sons Learchus and Melicertes were whelps. Ino  fled with her son Melicertes, jumped into the  sea, and was transformed by Zeus into a sea  goddess. Melicertes became a minor sea god.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 4) tells her tale.  In Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 5) Leucothea rises  from the sea in the form of a sea mew when  Odysseus’s ship breaks up. She gives the hero  her veil to tie around his waist so that he can  swim through the sea to the island of Phaeacia.  Milton’s   Comus   mentions the goddess in rela -  tion to her son Palaemon, a minor sea god.  See also:   athamas; cadmus; hera;   odyssey,  the;   ovid; zeus  Leve   (the high-up one)   In African mytholo -  gy (Mende of Sierra Leone), the sky god, often  called Ngewo. At first Leve gave humankind all  of its material desires. But soon Leve realized  that greed was a large part of man’s nature. “If  I continue to give the people all they want, they  will never leave me alone,” he said. So one day  Leve left mankind so that people would be less  dependent on his gifts and would have to work  to satisfy their needs.  Leza   (the one who besets)   In African myth -  ology (central African peoples), sky god, cre -  ator of the world, and culture hero. Known  to various African peoples, Leza is seen as  creator and culture hero of various tribes. In  one story he summoned a honey bird and gave  604   lettuce

=== 페이지 622 ===
it three sealed gourds. The bird was instructed  to take the gourds to the first humans. Two of  the gourds could be opened, but not the third.  Overcome with curiosity, the bird opened all  three. Two held seeds but the third held death,  sickness, beasts of prey, and dangerous reptiles.  These creatures could not be captured and put  back in the gourds.  In another myth of the Basubiya, a Bantu  people, Leza leaves for his sky home by a spi -  der’s thread after teaching the people various  arts and how to worship him. When the people  attempt to follow him by by climbing his web,  it breaks and they fall back to earth.  Another myth told by the Ila of Zambia,  Leza   is   responsible   for   death.   Once   Leza  caused the brothers, sisters, and parents of a  small girl to die. In time all of the girl’s rela -  tives died. Left an orphan, she eventually mar -  ried, but before long her husband died. After  her children gave birth to their children, they  also died. Leza then caused the aging woman’s  grandchildren to die, too. To the woman’s great  surprise, however, each day she seemed to grow  younger instead of older. She decided to build  a ladder to the sky to ask Leza why he was  doing these things. But the ladder crumbled  before she could reach the sky, so she tried to  find a road that would lead to Leza. She asked  everyone she met where the road might be and  told her sad story to all of the people along the  way. They explained to her that all people were  put into the world to suffer and that she was no  exception. The woman never found the road to  Leza, and like all others she died.  Libanza   In African mythology (Upotos of  the Congo), sky god and god of the dead.  Libanza, though chief god, was not the first  god. He was born of the union of his father,  Lotenge,   and   Ntsombobelle,   his   mother.  Before Ntsombobelle gave birth to Libanza,  she brought forth thousands of serpents, mos -  quitoes, and other vermin, all of them armed  with spears and shields. Libanza roamed the  earth after his birth. He married several wives  and had one son. He fought many people, killed  his brother, and fought his aunt. Sometimes he  even restored people to life after he had killed  them.   His   disposition,   however,   caused   his  mother and his sister, Ntsongo, to hate him.  His mother abandoned him and his sister said  to him: “You killed your elder brother and you  very nearly killed your own father. Do you  imagine that I do not hate you? No, I hate you,  and I should be glad to see you die.” Earlier,  his sister had asked Libanza to pick some palm  nuts from a tree. He began to climb the tree,  which grew taller and taller, until he reached  the heavens, where he found his dead aunt, his  murdered brother, and Lombo, king of the air.  He fought Lombo and gained complete victory  over the sky.  Now Libanza lives in the east, while his  sister, Ntsongo, inhabits the west. On the day  when he goes to see her in the west, everyone  will fall ill and many people will die. The day  will come when the sky will collapse and fall on  all people. This would have happened already  had it not been for the   molimons,   the souls of  the dead, who have begged and prayed Libanza  not to let the sky fall. The moon is a huge  boat that sails across the whole earth, picking  up the souls of the dead and bringing them to  Libanza. The stars are lit by the souls of the  dead, who sleep by day.  Libanza is responsible for death. One day he  summoned all the people of the moon and the  people of the earth. The people of the moon  came promptly and were rewarded by Libanza.  He said, “Because you have come at once when  I called you, you shall never die. You shall be  dead for only two days a month, and that will  be to rest; thereafter, you shall return more  splendid than before.” But when the people of  the earth arrived, he said, “Because you did not  come at once when I called you, you shall die  one day and you shall not return to life except  to come to me.” This is the reason the moon  dies once a month and comes to life after two  days, and why men, when they die, do not  return, but go to Libanza in the sky.  Libanza   605

=== 페이지 623 ===
Libayé   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Mescalero Apache), clown, first of the  Gahe, mountain gods, to step forward and sing  and dance himself into creation.  Libitina   In   Roman   mythology,   a   goddess  who presided over death rites. Servius Tullius  had a temple built in her honor, where every -  thing needed for a funeral was sold. Lists of the  dead were also kept in the temple. Originally,  Libitina was an Italian goddess of voluptuous  delight and of gardens, vineyards, and vintages.  She was also associated with Venus and called  Venus Libitina.  See also:   venus  Lieh-tzu   In Chinese history and legend a  semi-legendary sage. He “dwelt on a vegetable  plot for forty years, and no man knew him for  what he was.” He rode on the wind, and he  took his pleasure from the sayings of Taoist  philosophy. His message to his disciples was  “Saying nothing and knowing nothing, there  is in reality nothing that a man does not say,  nothing that a man does not know.”  Lif and Lifthrasir   (life and eager for life?)   In  Norse mythology, man and woman from whom  the new human race will spring after Ragnarok,  the destruction of the world, the gods, and  the frost giants. The myth is told in the   Prose  Edda.  See also:   prose edda  Ligeia   (shrill)   In Greek mythology, one of  the three Sirens; daughter of Achelous and  Calliope; sister of Leucosia and Parthenope.  Her name is used by Edgar Allan Poe as the  title of a poem and a short story.  See also:   achelous; calliope; parthenope  Likho   (evil)   In Russian folklore, personifica -  tion of evil, the demonic aspect of Dolya (fate)  portrayed as a poorly dressed woman.  In a beneficent mood Dolya protects the  family, but if in an evil mood, she is called  Likho and brings disaster. According to one  Russian folktale, “The One-Eyed Evil,” Likho  is described as a tall woman, scrawny, crooked,  and with one eye. According to the tale, a  blacksmith and a tailor went in search of Likho,  since they had never seen her. A short time  after they arrived at Likho’s house she killed  the tailor and served him to the blacksmith for  dinner. To save himself, the blacksmith told  Likho that he could restore her lost eye if only  she would let him tie her with some ropes,  because he would have to hammer the eye in  and any sudden movement would be disastrous.  Likho agreed and was easily tied up, but just as  easily she broke her bonds. A stronger rope was  brought. She was again tied and this time was  held fast as the blacksmith took out her other  eye with a red-hot poker from the fire, making  her completely blind. The blacksmith escaped  by donning a sheepskin. He was nearly caught  when his hand stuck to a golden ax in a tree. To  free himself he had to cut off his hand because  Likho, although blinded, was close behind him.  When he arrived at his village, he told every -  one what had happened: he had seen Likho,  A Siren   (C. Corvinus)  606   Libayé

=== 페이지 624 ===
who not only left him with just one hand but  also ate his companion.  Lilith   (storm goddess)   In Jewish, Christian,  and Islamic mythology, female demon. She is  said to haunt the wilderness in stormy weather.  She is especially dangerous to children and  pregnant women. In Jewish belief she was the  first wife of Adam before Eve but was cast into  the air for refusing to obey her husband. It was  a medieval custom to place four coins on the  Jewish marriage bed, which was to say “Adam  and Eve” and “Avaunt thee, Lilith!” In the Old  Testament Lilith is referred to as “the screech-  owl” in Isaiah (34:14), “the night monster” in  the Revised Version. Islamic folklore says she is  the wife of Iblis, the devil, and the mother of all  evil spirits. She appears in Goethe’s   Faust   and  Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s   Eden Bower.  See also:   adam and eve; faust; iblis  lily   A large funnel-shaped flower. In ancient  Egyptian symbolism, the lily was sometimes  interchangeable   with   the   lotus;   it   was   the  symbol for Upper Egypt. In Greek mythology,  Zeus and Hera used lilies as part of their mar -  riage couch. In Roman mythology, Venus was  associated with the lily. In European folklore,  lilies are used as protection against witches. In  Christian symbolism, the lily is associated with  the Virgin Mary and often portrayed in paint -  ings of the Annunciation. St. Joseph, husband  of the Virgin Mary, often is portrayed hold -  ing a lily as a sign of chastity. The lily of the  valley also is assigned to the Virgin Mary in  Christian symbolism. This identification stems  from an interpretation of a verse in the Song  of Songs or Song of Solomon (2:1): “I am the  rose of Sharon, and the lily of the valleys.” In  Japanese mythology, lilies stand for peace and  tiger lilies for war. The white Easter lily given  in America during the Holy Week is a symbol  of death in Europe and is commonly found on  gravestones.  See also:   hera; lotus; venus; virgin mary;  zeus  Lincoln, Abraham   (1809–1865)   In Ameri -  can   history   and   folklore,   16th   president   of  the United States (1861–1865), called Honest  Abe, the Rail Splitter, the Great Emancipator,  and Great Martyr. He was born in a log cabin  in   Hardin   (now   Larue)   County,   Kentucky.  His   mother,   Nancy   Hanks,   died   in   1818.  Lincoln settled in New Salem, Illinois, where  he studied law and worked as a storekeeper,  postmaster,   and   surveyor.   Becoming   a   law -  yer in 1836, he served in the state legislature  from 1834 to 1841. He fell in love with Ann  Rutledge (1816–1835), and their supposed love  affair has become part of Lincoln’s legend. In  1842 he married Mary Todd. Lincoln served  as president during the Civil War and was  assassinated on Good Friday, just a week after  the conflict had ended. He became for many  Americans a Christlike figure. Emerson wrote  that Lincoln had “become mythological in a  very few years.”  It is often difficult to separate the histori -  cal man from the legendary one. Some of the  main legends surrounding Lincoln follow. He  was, from early life, a keen reader, spending  hours near the fireside reading. As a store clerk, Lily   (Walter Crane)  Lincoln, Abraham   60 

=== 페이지 625 ===
he was credited with great honesty. One day  a woman came into the store and purchased  many goods, which Abe totaled at $2.26. Later  he again added the prices and discovered he  had made a mistake. He went in search of the  woman and returned the difference, earning  for himself the name Honest Abe. Because he  was also more than six feet tall and strong, he  was also known as the Rail Splitter. As a young  man he was often called on to fight the town  bully. Once Lincoln prayed at the bedside of a  young Confederate soldier who was dying. The  two repeated the well-known prayer, “Now I  lay me down to sleep.   .   .   .” Lincoln’s religious  faith formed the basis for many legends, but  he was not connected with any religious orga -  nization or church. Many legends deal with his  death. According to some, the president had  dreams of his impending death. His ghost is  said to inhabit the White House.  His life and legends have inspired many  works, among them Walt Whitman’s “O Cap -  tain My Captain” and “When Lilacs Last in  the Dooryard Bloom’d,” Robert E. Sherwood’s  play   Abe Lincoln in Illinois,   Carl Sandburg’s six-  volume   Abraham Lincoln,   Aaron Copland’s work  for voice narrator and orchestra,   A Lincoln Por -  trait,   and various movies, including   Abraham  Lincoln   (1925);   Abraham Lincoln   (1930), starring  Walter Huston;   Young Mr. Lincoln   (1939), star -  ring Henry Fonda; and   Abe Lincoln in Illinois  (1939), starring Raymond Massey.  lingam   (Linga)   (penis)   In   Hinduism,   the  sacred phallus of the god Shiva. Various myths  account for the origin of phallus worship in  India. According to one myth, after Shiva’s  wife had immolated herself to prove her love,  the god was taunted by a beautiful girl, whom  he then raped. Her husband cursed Shiva, say -  ing the god should not be worshipped in his  own form but only by the instrument of his  violence, the phallus.  In a variant myth, Shiva was wandering  naked, and the wives of holy men, excited by  his physical appearance, had intercourse with  him. The holy men cursed Shiva so that his  penis fell off. As it fell to the earth, it grew to  an immense size, reaching into the heavens  and into the deepest earth. The gods Vishnu  and Brahma decided to find out how long  Shiva’s phallus was. Vishnu descended into  the earth and Brahma ascended to the heav -  ens. When the two met, Vishnu said he could  not discover the beginning of the phallus, but  Brahma lied and said he had touched the top.  When Shiva appeared, he called Brahma a  liar. In another variant myth, Shiva had inter -  course in front of Vishnu and Brahma and, out  of shame, cut off his penis.   Lingam   worship  in India takes many forms. Various metals,  stones, and woods are used to construct the  phallus. There are even portable   lingam   made  of cow dung, butter, sandlewood, grass, and  flowers. The   lingam   is normally set in the  pan-shaped   yoni   (vagina) to express the union  of opposites in Shiva. Members of the Hindu  sect called Lingayat, in south India, wear   lin -  gam   around their necks, as a Christian would  wear a cross. One of the marriage customs of  the Hindus was to have a bride deflowered in  Shiva’s temple by a carved   lingam   of the deity,  thus making the child to be born a son or  daughter of the god.  See also:   brahma; shiva; vishnu; yoni  Ling-pai   (spirit   white)   In   Chinese   folk  belief, a white paper or cloth streamer used  in rites to call the souls of the dead back from  the hells.  lion   A large and powerful carnivorous cat. In  Egyptian mythology the lion or lioness was a  symbol of the war goddess Sekhmet. In Greek  mythology the lion or lioness was associated  with Phoebus, Artemis, Cybele, and Dionysus.  In Roman mythology the animal was associated  with Juno and Fortuna. In Hindu mythology  Narasinha, the fourth avatar of Vishnu, is por -  trayed as half man, half lion. In Near Eastern  mythology the lion or lioness is associated with  various   manifestations   of   the   great   Mother  60    lingam

=== 페이지 626 ===
Goddess, as well as the gods Marduk, Ninib,  and Nergal.  In the Old Testament the lion is a symbol of  Judah, and in the New Testament it is a symbol  of Jesus Christ, “the lion of the tribe of Juda,  the Root of David” (Rev. 5:5), as well as a sym -  bol in Christian art for the Gospel according to  St. Mark, patron saint of Venice. In medieval  Christian symbolism the lion could also stand  for the devil (1 Peter 5:8). In the requiem Mass  St. Michael was called on to deliver the souls  of the faithful “from the mouth of the lion, lest  the jaws of the pit swallow them.” In medieval  folklore it was believed that lion cubs were  born dead and given life by their father when  he breathed on them.  Though the lion was considered king of  beasts, medieval folklore said the animal was  afraid   of   creaking   wheels,   scorpions,   fires,  snake poison, and most of all, the cock. As  a ruler the lion was known for kindness and  mercy. Shakespeare in   Troilus and Cressida   (5.3)  has Troilus say:  Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you  Which better fits a lion than a man.  The lion’s kindness is found in such tales as  Androcles and the Lion, as well as in Aesop’s  fables. There are numerous motifs associated  with lions in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   aesopic fables; artemis; avatar;  dionysus; fortuna; juno; marduk; mark, st.;  michael, st.; nergal; sekhmet; vishnu  Lion and the Mouse, The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world.  A lion was asleep in his den one day when a  mouse ran across his outstretched paw and up  the royal nose of the king of beasts, awakening  him from his nap. The mighty beast clapped  his paw on the now thoroughly frightened little  creature and would have made an end of him.  “Please,” squealed the mouse, “don’t kill  me. Forgive me this time, O King, and I shall  never forget it. A day may come, who knows,  when I may do you a good turn to repay your  kindness.”  The   lion,   smiling   at   his   little   prisoner’s  fright and amused by the thought that so small  a creature ever could be of assistance to the  king of beasts, let him go.  Not long afterward the lion, while rang -  ing the forest for his prey, was caught in a net  hunters had set to catch him. He let out a roar  that echoed throughout the forest. Even the  mouse heard it and, recognizing the voice of  his benefactor, ran to the spot where the lion  lay tangled in the net of ropes.  “Well, Your Majesty,” said the mouse, “I  know you did not believe me once when I  said I would return a kindness, but here is my  chance.” And he set to work to nibble with his  sharp little teeth at the ropes that bound the  lion. Soon the lion was able to crawl out of the  hunter’s snare to freedom.  Moral:   No act of kindness, no matter how  small, is ever wasted.  In the Indian version the lion is replaced  by an elephant, as elephants were often tied  to trees as a preliminary to taming them. The  Greek form of the fable reached Egyptian lit -  erature about 200   c.e.   The German composer  Werner Egk set the fable for narrator, chorus,  and orchestra in 1931 for a radio program.  See also:   aesopic fables  Aesop’s The Lion and the Mouse  Lion and the Mouse, The   60 

=== 페이지 627 ===
Lion in Love, The   Aesopic fable found in  various European collections.  A lion fell in love with the beautiful daugh -  ter of a woodman. One day he came to ask the  girl’s hand in marriage. It was only natural that  the woodman was not greatly pleased with the  lion’s offer and declined the honor of so dan -  gerous an alliance.  The lion threatened the parents of the girl  with his royal displeasure. The poor father did  not know what to do. Finally, he said: “We are  greatly flattered by your proposal. But you see,  our daughter is a tender child, and her mother  and I fear that in expressing your affection for  her you may do her an injury. Would Your  Majesty consent to have your claws removed  and your teeth extracted before becoming a  bridegroom?”  So deeply was the lion in love that he per -  mitted the operation to take place. But when  he came again to the woodman’s home to claim  the girl, the father, no longer afraid of the  tamed and disarmed king of the beasts, seized  a stout club and drove the unhappy suitor from  his door.  Moral:   Even the wildest can be tamed by love.  The fable was told by Eumenes to warn the  Macedonians against the schemes of Antigo -  nus, called the One-Eyed. When the empire of  Alexander the Great was divided at his death,  Antigonus received Phrygia, Lycia, and Pam -  phylia. He eventually acquired the whole of  Asia Minor. He was defeated and slain at Ipsus  by allied forces in 301   b.c.e.  See also:   aesopic fables; alexander the  great  Lion’s Share, The   Aesopic fable found in  various collections throughout the world.  The lion preferred to hunt alone, but now  and   then   he   would   invite   other   beasts   to  accompany him. On one such occasion the  hunters cornered and killed a fat stag.  Taking a commanding position before the  dead stag, the lion roared: “Beasts, it is time to  divide the spoils. I demand that it be quartered.  The first quarter shall fall to me as king of the  beasts. The second is mine as arbiter. A third  quarter is due me for my part in the chase.  Now, as for the fourth part”—and here the  lion gave an ominous growl—“let him take it  who dares!”  Moral:   Many may share in the labors but not  in the spoils.  The companions of the lion in the Greek  version of Phaedrus are a cow, a goat, and a  sheep. In the medieval versions of Marie de  France and Benedict of Oxford (whose tales are  in Hebrew) the lion’s partners are carnivorous,  which seems appropriate to the setting.  See also:   aesopic fables; lion;   hitopadesh  Lir   (Llyr,   Lear,   Ler,   Leir)   (sea)   In   Celtic  mythology, a sea god, one of the Tuatha de  Danann, who was deeply devoted to his four chil -  dren—Fionguala, a daughter; Aed, or Hugh; and  Conn and Fiachra, twin boys—by his first wife,  Aebh. His second wife, Aeife, became jealous and  resolved to destroy the children. She took the  children to King Borve the Red, a neighboring  ruler, and through magic transformed them into  swans. Because of her evil King Borve turned  Aeife into a demon of the air. Then Lir and  Borve set out to find the children, which they  did, but they could not disenchant them. The  period of transformation lasted 900 years. When  they were finally released from their swan form  The Lion’s Share   (Arthur Rackham)  6  0   Lion in Love, The

=== 페이지 628 ===
by a Christian monk, they were old and with -  ered. The monk, seeing that the angel of death  would soon claim them, sprinkled each of them  with water, baptizing them as they died.  The tale is told in the Irish   Fate of the Children  of Lir,   which dates, according to some scholars,  to the 18th century. Some believe that Lir is the  original for Shakespeare’s King Lear. The tale is  also cited by James Joyce in his novel   Ulysses.  See also:   lear, king; tuatha de danann  Li T’ien-kuai   (13th century?)   In Chinese  Taoist mythology, one of the Pa-Hsien, the Eight  Immortals. Li was a very handsome man. One  day, as he was going up into the sky in his spirit  form (after having mastered the Tao), he told his  disciple that if his spirit did not return to his body  in seven days, his body should be put in the fire.  Six days passed, and the disciple had to go to see  his sick mother. He left the body of Li unguard -  ed. When the spirit of Li returned, it could not  enter its own body but instead had to go into that  of an old beggar. In art Li is portrayed as an old  beggar with an ugly face, blowing his spirit into  space in the form of a small human figure riding  on a staff, horse, or frog. In Japanese legend Li  T’ien-kuai is called Ri-Tekkai.  See also:   pa-hsien  Little Red Riding Hood   Popular European  folktale found in many collections, among them  Perrault’s   Petit chaperon rouge   and the Grimms’  Rotkäppchen.   Believed by most scholars to be  based on both oral and literary sources, the  tale tells how Little Red Riding Hood is eaten  by a wolf masquerading as her grandmother, or  in some accounts, as her mother. Perrault ends  his tale with Little Red Riding Hood’s death  and a short verse warning young girls to avoid  wolves. It was most likely Perrault who added  the red cap (cape) to the story as an indication  of the social standing of the young girl. In the  Grimms’ version a hunter appears who kills the  wolf and slits open its belly, which allows the  grandmother to reappear. In some variants the  hunter kills the wolf before it has eaten Little  Red Riding Hood.  Little Red Riding Hood is tale type 333,  the “Glutton,” and is known in China, Korea,  and Japan as “Grandaunt Tiger.” In most of  the oral sources in Europe and in Asia there  are additional elements to the story: nakedness  (the wolf tells the girl to take off her clothes for  she won’t be needing them), cannibalism (the  girl is instructed to eat the bones and drink the Li T’ien-kuai  Little Red Riding Hood   (Gustave Doré)  Little Red Riding Hood   6 

=== 페이지 629 ===
blood of her slain grandmother), and defeca -  tion (which the girl uses to escape the wolf).  None of these elements made their way into  the published sources and are only found in  field-collected variants. In 1985 Angela Lands -  bury played the grandmother in a film version  called   The Company of Wolves.  See   also:   grimm   brothers;   tale   type;  variant  Liu Ling   (300–221   b.c.e. )   In Chinese leg -  end,   one   of   the   seven   Chu-lin   Ch’i-Hsien  (Seven   Immortals).   He   was   followed   by   a  servant who carried a flask of wine in case he  wanted a drink and a shovel in case he fell dead,  so he could be buried where he fell. He is por -  trayed carrying a book. In Japanese legend he  is called Keiko.  See also:   chu-lin ch’i-hsien  Livy   (59   b.c.e. –17   c.e. )   Titus Livius, Roman  historian,   whose   History   of   Rome,   originally  in 142 books (of which 35 still exist) tells  many Roman legends, such as that of Romulus  and   Remus,   Lucretia,   the   expulsion   of   the  kings by Brutus, and the heroics of Camillus.  During the Middle Ages Livy’s work was highly  respected. Dante gave him high praise, and the  Renaissance political thinker Machiavelli wrote  a commentary on some of Livy’s work.  See also:   camillus; romulus and remus  Lleu Law Gyffes   (he of the steady hand?)   In  Celtic mythology, a culture hero among the  British, often identified with the Irish culture  hero Lugh, who was also a sun god. Lleu  Law Gyffes was worshipped in Gaul and was  the mythical founder of Lyons (Lugdunum),  where he was known as Lugus. His father  was   Arianrhod   and   his   mother   was   Math.  Gwydion,   Arianrhod’s   brother   abducts   and  raises him as a child. When Gwydion gives  the still unnamed child to his mother, she is  embarrassed,   which   many   have   interpreted  as a case of incest. Arianrhod is furious at  the sight of the child, accusing Gwydion of  “pursuing her [Math’s] shame.” His mother  thus curses the child three times: he will have  no other name than the one she gives him,  he shall bear no arms unless she give them to  him, and he will have no wife of the race of  the earth. Gwydion overcomes each of these  obstacles, the third by creating the beautiful  Blouderwedd from flowers. She proves to be  a bad wife and plots to kill him. When Lleu  Law Gyffes is wounded, he turns into an eagle  and flies to a magic oak tree. Gwydion finds  him and returns him to his human shape. He  then shames Blouderwedd and turns her into  an owl.  See also:   arianrhod; blathnat  loa   (laws)   In Haitian voodoo, deified spirit  of the dead who is looked upon as a god.  The multitude of loas derives from the West  African   Dahomey   people.   Native   Haitian  loas are less numerous, but include the Petra  Loa. The voodoo gods, called loas,   mystères,  or   voudoun,   are called forth from their other  abode by the Houn’gan or Mam’bo (priest  or priestess). They may enter a govi (special  jar) or mount (take possession of) a voodoo  follower.   A   loa   that   takes   possession   of   a  person completely controls all of the actions  of that person, and the possessed loses all  consciousness of self. The possessed person,  called the   cheval   (horse) because he or she  has been mounted by the loa, may prophesy,  dance, and perform magic, none of which  is recalled when the possessed awakens. A  young girl, for instance, who is mounted by  an old loa will become as feeble and practi -  cally as speechless as an old woman. Yet if an  old man is mounted by a vigorous young loa,  he will act like a young man. The sick who  normally are unable to walk will dance and  leap about. Generally, the entire personality  of the mounted person is erased during the  loa crisis.  The loas have sensitive feelings and are  hurt by disrespect and sometimes cry when  they feel neglected by the living. The word   loa  6  2   Liu Ling

=== 페이지 630 ===
is believed to be derived from the French   lois  (laws), indicating a connection between man  and the laws of creation.  Loch Ness Monster   A lake monster said to  inhabit Loch Ness in Scotland. In April 1933  a motorist driving along the shore of Loch  Ness “saw” a fantastic animal some 30 feet  long with a long neck and two flippers at about  the middle of its body. It was also “seen” and  described by others and made newspaper head -  lines. It is still one of the main attractions to the  area. Does the Loch Ness monster really exist?  The question still causes debate in Scottish  taverns as well as in other English-speaking  countries. Reports of the monster would seem  to show that under the proper psychological  and naturalistic conditions even our science-  oriented age can conjure up a monster that can  hold its own against fantastic beasts of ancient  mythology.  Loco and Ayizan   In Haitian voodoo, two  healing loas believed to have been the first  houn’gan and mam’bo (priest and priestess).  Loco acts as a doctor who heals and repairs the  body, and Ayizan protects against malevolent  magic.  See also:   loa  Lohengrin   In   medieval   German   legend,  the   Knight   of   the   Swan,   son   of   Perceval  (Parzival)   and   Conduiramour,   defender   of  Else, the princess of Brabant, who was falsely  charged with murder. Brought up with the  Knights of the Holy Grail, Lohengrin was  one day called to defend an innocent victim.  He was told he would be conveyed to his des -  tination by a swan. Perceval reminded his son  that as a servant of the Holy Grail he must  never reveal his name or origin unless asked  to do so and that, having once made himself  known, he was bound to return without delay.  Guided by the swan, Lohengrin arrived as  Else, charged with the murder of her brother,  was waiting for a champion to defend her  in a judicial duel. Lohengrin won the battle  against Frederick, who had accused Else. Else  then consented to become Lohengrin’s wife  without knowing his true name. The wedding  took place at Antwerp, where the emperor,  Henry the Fowler, came to celebrate with  them.   Lohengrin   had   cautioned   Else   that  she must never ask him his name. But Else  wished to know who her husband really was  and finally asked the question. Lohengrin led  her into the great hall, where in the presence  of the assembled knights he told her that he  was Lohengrin, son of Perceval, the guard -  ian of the Holy Grail. Then, embracing her  tenderly, he told her that “love cannot live  without faith” and that he must now leave her  and return to the Holy Mountain. After he  had blown his horn three times, the swan boat  appeared, and Lohengrin sprang into it and  vanished. Some variants of the legend say that  Else soon died; others say she lived on.  Wolfram von Eschenbach wrote his   Par -  zival   in 1210, in which Lohengrin plays a major  role. The legend was used by Wagner in his  opera   Lohengrin   (1847).  See also:   holy grail; perceval  Lokaloka   (a world and no world)   In Hindu  mythology,   a   belt   of   mountains   bounding  the outermost of the seven seas and dividing  the visible world from the regions of dark -  ness. Lokaloka is also called Chakra-vada or  Chakra-vala.  Lokapalas   (world   protectors)   In   Hindu  mythology, the four guardians of the quarters  of the earth: Yama, Kubera, Varuna, and Indra.  Sometimes four other gods are listed: Agni,  Vayu, Soma, and Surya. They in turn are assist -  ed by the Diggajas (elephants of the directions):  Airavata, Pundarika, Vana, Kumuda, Anjana,  Pushapadanta,   Sarvabhauma,   and   Supratika.  The Diggajas are also called Dikpala (lord of  the directions).  See also:   agni; indra; kubera; soma; supra -  tika; surya; varuna; yama  Lokapalas   6  3

=== 페이지 631 ===
Loki   (fire, flame)   In Norse mythology, evil  fire-trickster god; son of the giant Farbauti  and the giantess Laufey, or Nal. Loki’s wife  was Siguna; Vali and Nari were his children.  He became foster brother to the god Odin and  was also counted among the Aesir, though he  was not one of them. He was really a giant.  Loki, or Loptur, is called Loge in Germanic  mythology and in Richard Wagner’s   Der Ring  des Nibelungen.  The   Prose   Edda   describes   Loki   as   “the  calumniator of the gods, the contriver of all  fraud and mischief, and the disgrace of gods  and   men.   .   .   .   Loki   is   handsome   and   well  made, but of a very fickle mood and most  evil disposition. He surpasses all beings in those  arts called Cunning and Perfidy. Many a time  has he exposed the gods to great perils, and  often extricated them again by his artifices.”  Loki was responsible for the death of the  good and fair god Baldur. When the gods  discovered Loki’s part in Baldur’s death, they  threatened him with punishment, so he hid  himself in the mountains. He built a house  with four doors in order to see everything  that passed around him. Often he assumed the  likeness of a salmon and hid himself under the  waters of a cascade called Franangursfors.  One day he took flax and yarn and worked  them into a net, but learning that the gods were  approaching his dwelling, he threw the net into  the fire and fled to the river. When the gods  entered Loki’s house, Kvasir, who was known for  his quickness and knowledge, traced out in the  hot embers the vestiges of the burned net and  told Odin that it must be an invention to catch  fish. The gods then wove another net, follow -  ing the model that was imprinted in the ashes.  They threw the new net into the river in which  Loki had hidden himself. Thor held one end of  the net, and the rest of the gods held the other,  but they failed to catch Loki. The evil god had  leaped over the net into the waterfall. The gods  divided themselves into two bands: Thor, wading  midstream, followed the net, while the others  dragged it along toward the sea. Loki knew then  that he had only two chances to escape, either to  swim out to sea or to leap over the net. He chose  Loki’s punishment  6  4   Loki

=== 페이지 632 ===
the latter, but as he took a tremendous leap,  Thor caught him in his hand. Being extremely  slippery, Loki would have escaped had not Thor  held him fast by the tail, and according to the  Prose Edda,   “this is the reason why salmons have  had their tails ever since so fine and thin.” The  Prose Edda   continues:  The   gods   having   thus   captured   Loki,  dragged him without commiseration into  a cavern, wherein they placed three sharp-  pointed rocks, boring a hole through each  of them. Having also seized Loki’s chil -  dren, Vali and Nari, they changed the for -  mer into a wolf, and in this likeness he tore  his brother to pieces and devoured him.  The gods then made cords of his intes -  tines, with which they bound Loki on the  points of the rocks, one cord passing under  his shoulders, another under his loins, and  a third under his hams, and afterwards  transformed these cords into thongs of  iron. Skadi then suspended a serpent over  him in such a manner that the venom  should fall on his face, drop by drop. But  Siguna, his wife, stands by him and receives  the drops as they fall in a cup, which she  empties as often as it is filled. But while she  is doing this, venom falls upon Loki, which  makes him howl with horror, and twist  his body about so violently that the whole  earth shakes, and this produces what men  call earthquakes. There will Loki lie until  Ragnarok (Blackwell translation).  In   Wagner’s   music   drama   Die   Walküre,  Wotan, who corresponds to Odin, calls on  Loge   (Loki)   to   surround   Brünnhilde   with  flames until a hero, Siegfried, frees her. Loki  (spelled Lok) also appears in Matthew Arnold’s  narrative poem   Balder Dead.   Loki (Loge) is  portrayed in Arthur Rackham’s illustrations for  Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   aesir; angurboda; baldur; freyja;  heimdall; kvasir;   prose edda ; ragnarok;   ring  des nibelungen, der  Lokman   (Luqman, Lukman)   In Islamic leg -  end, Arabian sage and author of fables. In the  Koran (sura 31) Lokman is credited with great  wisdom given him by Allah. Muhammad hon -  ored him as the author of proverbs, some of  which are recorded in the Koran. A few cen -  turies after Muhammad’s death Lokman was  also credited with the authorship of numerous  fables.  The   life   of   Lokman   resembles   that   of  Aesop. He was a slave, ugly and deformed,  who was offered by God the choice of wisdom  or prophecy and chose wisdom. In one legend  Lokman’s master offered him a bitter melon  to eat. After Lokman ate the entire fruit, his  master asked how he could eat such unpleas -  ant food. Lokman replied that he should take  the   unpleasant   with   the   pleasant   from   his  master.  The   first   collection   of   Lokman’s   fables  appeared in the late 13th century and consisted  of some 40 fables. Although derived mainly  from a Syriac collection of Sophos, or Aesopus,  there is one fable in the collection that has not  yet been traced to another source. A thornbush  asks a gardener to tend it so that it may delight  kings with its flowers and fruits. The gardener  waters the bush every day, and it eventually  overruns   the   garden.   The   fable   somewhat  resembles the one told by Jotham in Judges  (9:7–15) in its depiction of the thornbush’s  cruel nature.  Some scholars have believed that   Lokman   is  a corruption of King Solomon’s name.  See also:   aesopic fables; allah; koran,  the; muhammad; solomon  Loltún Cave   A cave in the northern part of  the Yucatán Peninsula that has both historical  and mythical significance throughout Central  America.   In   the   cave   there   are   sculptures  of individuals dating back to ancient times,  which suggests that it has been a center of  ritual and mythic importance for hundreds  of years.  Loltún Cave   6  5

=== 페이지 633 ===
Longinus,   St.   (first century)   In Christian  legend,   name   given   to   the   centurion   who  pierced the side of Christ when he was on the  cross (Matt. 27:54). The lance became a cult  object during the Middle Ages, with numer -  ous churches claiming to possess it. Feast, 15  March. In medieval Christian art St. Longinus  is usually portrayed as a knight in full armor, in  later Renaissance art as a Roman soldier with a  spear or lance.  Long   Juju   In African legend, a prophet  who lived in Nigeria during the period of  the slave trade. Many people believed in his  powers and therefore greatly feared him. He  would sit at the entrance of a cave while visi -  tors stood in the waters of a small river that  ran   alongside   it   and   asked   him   questions,  which   he   answered   in   a   mysterious,   nasal  tone. He claimed to have the ability to tell  which men were guilty of crimes and which  were   innocent.   Those   whom   he   declared  guilty were sold into slavery.  Lönnrot,   Elias   (1802–1884)   Finnish folk -  lorist and compiler of   The Kalevala,   the national  Finnish epic poem. The son of a poor country  tailor, Lönnrot studied to be a doctor at the  University   of   Helsinki,   becoming   a   district  medical officer at Kajaani in eastern Finland.  Inspired by the works of the Grimm Brothers,  he made extensive collections of traditional oral  folk poetry among the Lapps, Estonians, and  Finns in Karelia and northwest Russia. He first  published   The Kalevala   in 1835 and expand -  ed it in 1849. Aside from this monumental  work, Lönnrot edited   Kantelator,   a collection  of Finnish folk poetry consisting of 652 poems.  Among the ballads are many that show similar -  ity to those of central and western Europe, as  well as Finnish versions of Christian legends.  Through   his   efforts   for   a   Finnish   national  identity, Lönnrot became one of the leaders of  the nationalist movement, though more in the  nature of a patriarch than a revolutionary.  See also:   grimm brothers;   kalevala, the  Lord   of   Misrule   In   medieval   European  folk custom, a person who directed the festivi -  ties of the holiday season during Christmas,  from the feast of Christmas to Ephiphany,  the Twelve Days of Christmas. He was some -  times called the King of Misrule, King of the  Bean, the Abbas Stultorum, the Boy Bishop,  Abbot of Unreason, Abbot of Misrule, or Bon  Accord. During his rule he was furnished with  hobby horses, dragons, and musicians, and he  was allowed to tell his “subjects” to do nearly  any deed.  Lorlei   (Loreley, Lurlei, Lorelei)   In German  literary folklore and in local legend, an enchant -  ress with long blond hair who sits on a cliff  133 meters above the Rhine river. She combs  her hair and sings a song that bewitches the  captains of ships down below, causing them  to drive their vessels into the rocky crags and  to   lose   their   lives.   While   the   literary   ver -  sions by Clemens Brentano and particularly by  Heinrich Heine in the early 19th century are  well known, according to local legend the same  spot on the Rhine is said to be the location of  the Nibelungen horde.  See also:   nibelungenlied  Losy   In Siberian mythology, an evil giant  snake defeated by the creator god Otshirvani,  who took the form of a gigantic bird. In many  Central Asian myths, Losy is called Abyrga.  See also:   garide bird; otshirvani  Lot, King   (covering)   In Arthurian legend,  king of Orkney, defeated by King Arthur. In  Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur   Lot is the father of  Gwain, Agravaine, Gaheris, and Gareth by his  wife, Margawse, who was Arthur’s sister.  See also:   arthur; gareth; gwain; margawse  Lotis   In Greek mythology, a nymph, daugh -  ter of Poseidon. She fled from Priapus’s lust  and was transformed into a lotus tree. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 9) tells her tale.  See also:   lotus; ovid; poseidon; priapus  6  6   Longinus, St.

=== 페이지 634 ===
Lotophagi   (lotus eaters)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a fantastic people of coastal Africa who  lived on lotus fruit. They were visited by  Odysseus on his homeward journey after the  Trojan War, according to Homer’s   Odyssey  (book   9).   Herodotus’s   Histories   says   the  Lotophagi lived in western Libya. The fruit  has been identified as the   Cordia myxa   (sour  plum) by some writers such as Pliny in his  Natural History.   Whatever the fruit, it pro -  duced forgetfulness, making one lose desire  for   home.   Tennyson’s   “The   Lotus-Eaters”  deals with the myth.  See also:   lotus; odysseus;   odyssey, the  lotus   A water flower; in Egyptian mythol -  ogy, associated with Osiris and his sister-wife  Isis as a sign of life and resurrection. One  Egyptian work portrays Isis emerging from a  lotus flower. Egyptian mummies often held a  lotus in their hands as a symbol of new life.  In   Hindu   mythology,   Vishnu   and   Brahma  are   associated   with   the   lotus.   Brahma   is  called “lotus-born” and often portrayed as a  giant lotus sprouting from the navel of the  god Vishnu, the “lotus-naveled.” According  to   Buddhist   legend,   whenever   the   Buddha  walked   abroad,   he   left   not   footprints   but  the mark of the lotus, the “fairest flower” of  the East. In one myth he is said to have first  appeared floating on a lotus.  See also:   brahma; buddha; isis: lily; osiris;  vishnu  Louhi   (witch of the wind?)   In the Finnish  epic poem   The Kalevala,   evil gap-toothed mis -  tress of Pohjola, the Northland.  Louhi had two daughters, the lovelier being  the Maiden of Pohjola, who was wooed by all  three heroes in the epic: Vainamoinen, Ilmar -  inen, and Lemminkainen. Finally, after Ilmar -  inen forged the magic sampo for Louhi, he  was given the bride. The sampo made Pohjola  prosperous, and Vainamoinen decided to steal  it for his land. He succeeded but was pursued  by Louhi and her men. A great battle ensued  in which the sampo was lost in the lake, with  only a few pieces left floating on the waters.  Louhi, angered because her land became bar -  ren after the loss of the sampo, sent a plague  to Vainamoinen’s land, but the hero healed his  people by the use of magic. Not satisfied, the  evil mistress then sent a great bear to ravish  the herds, but Vainamoinen was again victori -  ous. Finally, out of desperation, Louhi stole  the sun and moon as well as fire from all of  the hearths in Vainamoinen’s land, but new  fire was kindled by a thunderbolt from Ukko,  the sky god. Ilmarinen then forged chains for  Louhi, and out of fear Louhi released the sun  and moon.  See also:   ilmarinen;   kalevala, the ; lem -  minkainen; maiden of pohjola; sampo; ukko;  vainamoinen  Louis,   St.   (famous   in   battle)   (1214–1270)  In Christian legend, king of France. Commis-  sioned La Sainte-Chapelle in honor of relics of  St. Louis, king of France, in prayer  Louis, St.   6 

=== 페이지 635 ===
the true cross he obtained in the Holy Land.  Feast, 25 August.  Louis was born at Poissy and came to the  French throne when he was 11 years old. He  defeated King Henry III of England in 1242  and twice made trips to the Holy Land. His  life was recorded by his personal friend Jean  Joinville (1225–1317) in his   Historie de Saint  Louis.   The work deals primarily with the first  crusade of St. Louis and Joinville’s relation -  ship with the king. When the saint wished  to   make   his   second   crusade   to   the   Holy  Land, Joinville writes that “those who recom -  mended this voyage to the king sinned griev -  ously.” He therefore excused himself from  the journey. Louis died of typhus at Tunis,  and his bones and heart were taken back to  France and enshrined in the abbey church of  St. Denis. They were lost during the French  Revolution. Another portion of his relics was  taken to Palermo and placed in the cathedral  of Monreale.  St. Louis is pictured as a king crowned, with  fleurs-de-lis on his mantle and scepter. Often  a crown of thorns is also shown. El Greco  painted the saint with his page (1585–1590).  He was canonized in 1297.  See also:   denis, st.  Lowa   (Loa)   In Micronesian mythology, cre -  ator god from whose leg the first man and  woman,   Wulleb   and   Limdunanij,   emerged.  The   first   couple   had   two   children,   one   of  whom tried to kill his father, Wulleb. Fleeing  his murderous son, Wulleb descended to earth,  and from his leg two more sons were born,  the younger of whom, Edao, became a great  magician.  See also:   adam and eve  Luchtaine   (Lud)   In   Celtic   mythology,   a  woodworker god who made weapons for the  Tuatha de Danann (the people of the goddess  Danu)   when   they   fought   and   defeated   the  Fomorians. He was particularly adept at mak -  ing spears and shields.  See   also:   danu; fomorians; tuatha de  denann  Lucifer   (light bearer)   In Christian mythol -  ogy,   name   often   given   to   Satan,   though  originally it probably referred to the morn -  ing star.  In Isaiah (14:4,12) the name Lucifer is fig -  uratively applied to Nebuchadnezzar: “Take  up this proverb against the King of Baby -  lon.   .   .   .   How   art   thou   fallen   from   heaven  O Lucifer, son of the morning.” St. Jerome,  writing in the fourth century, as well as other  Doctors of the Church, used the name Luci -  fer for Satan when commenting, “I beheld  Satan as lightning fell from heaven” (Luke  10:18). In Christopher Marlowe’s play   Doc -  tor Faustus   and Dante’s   The Divine Comedy  Lucifer is the king of hell. John Milton, in  his epic poem   Paradise Lost,   gives this name  to Satan, the demon of “sinful pride” before  the Fall. A massive epic play,   Lucifer,   by Joost  van den Vondel, the celebrated Dutch poet of  the 17th century, has Lucifer as its main pro -  tagonist. George Meredith’s poem   Lucifer in  Starlight   treats Lucifer and his fall in a work  tinged with skepticism.  See also:   doctors of the church; jerome,  st.; satan  Lucretia   In Roman legend, daughter of Luc -  retius and wife of the Tarquinius Collatinus, a  relative of the king Tarquinius. She was raped  by   one   of   King   Tarquinius’s   sons,   Sextus.  Lucretia informed her husband and her father  of the deed and then killed herself. Her rape  so inflamed the people that they overthrew the  monarchy and established a republic. Her hus -  band, who joined the rebellion, was elected one  of the new magistrates but abdicated because  no one named Tarquinius should rule at Rome  again. The legend is told in Livy’s   History of  Rome,   Ovid’s   Fasti,   Chaucer’s   Legend of Good  Women,   and Shakespeare’s long poem   The Rape  of Lucrece,   which forms the basis for Benjamin  Britten’s opera   The Rape of Lucretia   (1946).  6    Lowa

=== 페이지 636 ===
Lucifer Is Cast Out of Heaven   (Gustave Doré)  FPO  Fig.298

=== 페이지 637 ===
The subject has been painted by Botticelli,  Filippino Lippi, Titian, Tintoretto, Cranach,  and Veronese.  See also:   chaucer; ovid  Lucretius   (c. 95–c. 55   b.c.e. )   Roman poet,  Titus Lucretius Carus, author of   De rerum  natura   (On the Nature of Things), which,  in six books, is an exposition of the materi -  alistic and hedonistic Epicurean philosophy  in poetic form. The argument suggests that  the gods are unconcerned with human affairs  but   describes   a   tight   connection   between  the   physical   laws   that   govern   the   material  world and their implications for an ethical  life. Despite the rejection of divine interfer -  ence, mythological scenes are used frequently.  Book 1 opens with a magnificent address to  Venus as goddess of creation, and the evils of  religious fanaticism are exposed by the tale  of the sacrifice of Iphigenia at Aulis. Parts of  De rerum natura   were translated into English  heroic verse by John Dryden. According to  a medieval legend first stated by St. Jerome,  Lucretius committed suicide after being poi -  soned by a love philter. Tennyson’s   Lucretius  deals with the poet’s death.  See also:   iphigenia; venus  Lucy of Syracuse, St.   (light)   (third century)  In Christian legend, patron saint of eyes, cut -  lers, glaziers, notaries, peddlers, saddlers, ser -  vant girls, scribes, tailors, and weavers. Invoked  against blindness, fire, infection, hemorrhage,  and sore throat. Feast, 13 December.  Vowed to chastity, Lucy was arrested for  being a Christian and ordered to sacrifice to  the pagan gods. She refused and was placed in  a whorehouse by the governor Paschasius.  “Here you will lose your chastity,” said  the governor to the girl. He then ordered  some young men to “defoul her, and labor  her so much till she be dead,” according to  The Golden Legend,   a collection of saints’ lives  written in the 13th century by Jacobus de  Voragine.  The men tried to rape the saint, but the  Holy Spirit made her so “heavy that in no wise  might they move her from the place.” Pas -  chasius became so enraged that he ordered a  servant to pierce her throat with a poniard. She  died on the spot.  The legend connecting her with the loss  of eyesight is a later medieval legend. A young  man fell in love with Lucy because of her  beautiful eyes. She plucked them out and sent  them to him in a dish, saying “now let me live  to God.” The man became a Christian, and  God later restored Lucy’s eyes. She is depicted  in art carrying a palm branch and a platter with  two eyes on it.  See also:   golden legend, the  Lud   In Finno-Ugric ritual, a sacred grove  where the spirits of ancient heroes were wor -  shipped. Each family had its own Lud, though  children and women were not allowed into the  sacred grove. The Lud spirit who lived in the  grove usually demanded a blood offering. A  foal was generally the victim, but sometimes  it was a black sheep. Before beginning the sac -  rifice the people ascertained whether the Lud  spirit would accept the offering by pouring  fresh water and twigs over the sacrificial animal  as they recited prayers. If the animal shivered,  it indicated that the sacrifice was acceptable to  the Lud spirit.  Ludd   In Celtic mythology, Welsh sea god,  believed equivalent to Nudd (Lludd), a god  and king of the Tuatha de Danann. Ludd is the  legendary founder of London. His temple in  London was located near St. Paul’s Cathedral,  and Ludgate Hill is named after the god. He  was called Llawereint (silver handed) because  a   silver   artificial   hand   replaced   one   of   his  hands that had been cut off. In later Celtic  mythology, Ludd is the name of a British king,  founder of London, buried at Ludgate. The  later version is probably a mortal form of the  earlier god.  See also:   nudd; tuatha de danann  620   Lucretius

=== 페이지 638 ===
ludki   (little   people)   In   Slavic   folklore,  dwarfs who originally inhabited Serbia but  left when Christianity arrived because they  could not stand the sound of church bells.  They were small, with large heads and big  protruding eyes, and they wore large red hats.  They taught mankind how to build homes,  and they were fond of music and singing.  Gifted with the art of prophecy, they often  helped human beings but found it difficult to  get along with one another. When one died,  his body was burned and his ashes put in a  vessel that was buried in the earth. The tears  shed at the funeral were collected in small jars  and placed in ancient cemeteries. In Poland  the dwarfs are called   krasnoludi   or   krasnoludki ;  in Hungary,   lutky.  Lugulbanda   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Babylonian-Assyrian),   shepherd   god   who  appears as a protector and father of the hero in  the epic poem   Gilgamesh.   Some myths say that  Lugulbanda slew the monster bird, Zu, who  had stolen the tablets of fate from the gods.  He was most likely a deified Sumerian king  and hero.  See also:   gilgamesh; zu  Luke, St.   (from Lucama, a district in southern  Italy)   (first century)   Evangelist, author of the  Gospel that bears his name and the Acts of the  Apostles in the New Testament. Patron saint of  artists and physicians. Feast, 18 October.  Luke was the beloved physician (Col. 4:14) of  St. Paul in many of his missionary journeys. He  accompanied Paul to Rome, where he remained  with his master and teacher until Paul’s martyr -  dom, according to Christian legend not included  in the New Testament. After the death of St.  Peter and St. Paul (who were both executed  on the same day, according to legend) Luke  preached the gospel in Greece and Egypt. There  are two traditions regarding his death. In the  Greek church he is believed to have died a natu -  ral death; in the Western church he is believed to  have been crucified at Patras with St. Andrew.  The   belief   that   St.   Luke   was   a   painter  comes from a Greek legend of the 10th cen -  tury. A picture of the Virgin Mary was found in  the catacombs with an inscription “One of the  seven painted by Luca.” It was assumed that  “Luca” of the inscription was St. Luke, but the  artist was probably St. Luke the Greek hermit.  Legend expanded the identification: the Evan -  gelist always carried two portraits with him,  one of Christ and another of the Virgin Mary,  which he had painted from life.  Numerous medieval European churches dis -  played “Black Madonnas” that were ascribed to  St. Luke because of their age. They are usually  black from the smoke of the burning candles  that has encrusted the works. Numerous medi -  eval Christian artworks portray St. Luke in the  process of painting the Madonna and Child.  When St. Luke is portrayed as an Evangelist,  an ox (winged or unwinged) is often shown with  him or made to symbolize the saint.  See also:   andrew, st.; paul, st.; peter, st.;  virgin mary  St. Luke painting the Madonna  Luna   62 

=== 페이지 639 ===
Luna   (the   moon)   In   Roman   mythology,  ancient Italian moon goddess; identified by  the Romans with the Greek goddess Artemis,  who was also associated with the moon. Luna  had an ancient sanctuary in Rome on the  Aventine,   in   which   as   goddess   ruling   the  month she received worship on the last day of  March, which was the first month of the old  Roman year. As Noctiluca (lamps of the night)  Luna had a temple on the Palatine that was lit  at night.  See also:   artemis  Lung-rta   (wind   horse)   In   Tibetan   Bud -  dhism, fantastic horse often found on flags,  symbolizing the wind. According to L. Austine  Waddell in   The Buddhism of Tibet, or Lamaism :  “The symbol is avowedly a luck-commanding  talisman for enhancing the grandeur of the  votary.”  Lung Wang   (dragon king)   In Chinese myth-  ology, a general word for a dragon. Dragons  control waters and especially rain.  See also:   dragon  Luonnotar   (Ilnatar)   In Finnish mythology,  creator goddess, daughter of air or the heavens  in the epic poem   The Kalevala,   who brought  about creation.  The   opening   of   The   Kalevala   tells   how  Luonnotar had spent her life “all alone in the  vast emptiness of space.” She descended from  the heavens, and the waves carried her for 700  years. “The breath of the wind caressed her  bosom and the sea made her fertile” as she was  tossed by the waves. Then a gull, teal, eagle,  or duck (the animal is not exactly identified)  came “flying from the horizon,” and Luonno -  tar “lifted her knees from the waves, and on it  the bird made her nest and began to hatch her  eggs.” The girl became excited and felt heat  “till she thought her knee was burning” and her  “veins were melting.” She jerked her knees, and  the eggs rolled into the water and were shat -  tered. From the lower fragments of the eggs  the solid earth was fashioned, and the cracked  eggs’ upper fragments became the “lofty arch  of heaven.” The egg yolks became the sun; the  whites, the gleaming moon. The spotted frag -  ments became the stars and the black fragments  were the clouds. Luonnotar went on to create  capes, bays, seashores, and the depths and shal -  lows of the oceans. Now the water mother, she  gave birth to Vainamoinen, the culture hero  and demigod in the epic poem.  Sibelius set part of   The Kalevala   text of the  creation to music for female soloist and orches -  tra, calling the work   Luonnotar.  See also:  kalevala ,  the  Lu   Pan   In   Chinese   mythology,   a   deified  mortal worshipped as the god of carpenters  and artisans.  Lupus,   St.   (seventh   century)   Bishop   of  Sens, France. Feast, 1 September. St. Lupus  could restore sight to the blind and convert  heathens   by   his   numerous   miracles.   Once  when he was celebrating Mass, a “precious  stone” dropped miraculously into his chalice.  It is kept as a relic in the cathedral of Sens  treasury. Also kept is Lupus’s ring, which was  once dropped into a river but then found in  the belly of a fish.  Luther   legend   The   oldest   version   of   a  Luther   legend   (1591)   tells   that   the   Devil  threw an inkwell at Martin Luther because  he was translating the Bible into German.  During   the   Enlightenment,   the   story   was  changed so that the Devil did not appear, but,  instead, Luther himself threw the inkwell at  a nasty fly. (Beelzebub, or the Devil, is some -  times known as the “Lord of Flies.”) The ink  spot is documented in 1706 behind the warm -  ing oven in the Luther room in Wittenberg.  The ink spot story also became attached to  a different room, one in Wartburg Castle in  Eisenach. By 1841 a “Luther ink spot” could  be seen there, but there is documentation as  early as 1602 for Wittenberg, and 1650 for  622   Luna

=== 페이지 640 ===
Wartburg. Other cities in which Luther spent  time have also tried to claim the ink spot:  Coburg,   Eisleben,   and   Zulsdorf.   In   1983,  the German Democratic Republic honored  Luther with an exhibition in Berlin, and the  poster featured the ink spot.  Lutin   In Haitian voodoo, the ghost of an  unbaptized child, which wanders about never  finding rest.  Lu Tung-pin   (eighth century   c.e. )   In Chi-  nese Taoist mythology, one of the Pa-Hsien,  the Eight Immortals. A scholar and recluse,  he attained immortality at the age of 50. He is  a patron of barbers, and the sick invoke him.  In art he holds a Taoist fly brush and sword,  which he uses to fight monsters. He was given  the sword after he was tempted 10 times and  overcame evil.  See also:   pa-hsien  Lycaon   ( wolf)   In Greek mythology, a wolf -  man, king of Arcadia; son of Pelasgus; father  of Callisto and 50 sons. Accounts of Lycaon  vary. In some myths he appears as impious,  in others as a culture hero. According to one  myth, Lycaon’s sons were evil, having slain  their   brother   Nyctimus   and   offering   the  child in a soup to Zeus (who had disguised  himself as a poor laborer). In anger Zeus slew  all of the sons with a thunderbolt, restored  Nyctimus to life, and transformed Lycaon  into a wolf. In a variant account Lycaon him -  self offered the human flesh to test whether  Zeus was really a god. In disgust Zeus sent a  flood to destroy the earth; only Deucalion and  his wife, Pyrrha, were saved. In yet another  variant, Lycaon was a priest of Zeus Lycaeus  and was spared death, though his children  were killed. Some scholars believe that the  myth is related to the cannibalism that was  part of the cult of Zeus Lycaeus, in which it  was believed that those who ate human flesh  were turned into wolves and wandered in the  wild for eight or 10 years before being able  to return to human form—and then only if  they did not eat any more human flesh. Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 1) and Vergil’s   Georgics  (1.138) deal with the myth.  See also:   arcadia; deucalion; werewolf;  zeus  lynx   A wildcat, half dog and half panther,  having long limbs, tufted ears, and a short  tail.   In   Egyptian   mythology   the   lynx   was  called Maftet and regarded as a friend of the Lu Tung-pin  lynx   623  Ink spot thrown by Martin Luther

=== 페이지 641 ===
dead. In ancient Greek folklore it was believed  that the lynx could see through walls or even  a mountain. In medieval Christian belief the  animal was a symbol of the omniscience and  vigilance of Christ because of the belief in  its magical sight. But it was also a symbol  of avarice. Its urine was believed to harden  into precious stones, which the greedy beast  buried in the earth so on one could enjoy its  treasure.  Lynx   (Konrad Gesner)  624   lynx

=== 페이지 642 ===
6  M  Maanhaltija   In Finno-Ugric mythology, the  earth spirit who watches over the fruits of  the land.  Maat   (Maa, Maet, Maht, Maut) (truth, jus -  tice, righteousness)   In Egyptian mythology,  goddess of truth, daughter of the sun god Ra;  her name is represented by an ostrich feather,  an emblem she shared with the air god Shu.  Her presence is indicated in “The Weighing of  the Heart” in The Book of the Dead ,   in which  the feather of truth is usually found over the  balance scales and also appears as the weight  against which the heart is weighed. Egyptian  judges in the Plotemaic and Roman periods  were often portrayed wearing an amulet of  Maat around a cord on their necks as emblems  of   their   office.   One   ancient   Egyptian   text  describes   the   goddess:   “Great   is   Maat,   the  mighty and unalterable.” Maat was sometimes  thought of as a kind of good angel who lived  with an individual and accompanied that per -  son into the afterlife. “Joining Maat” became a  euphemism for dying.  See also:   book of the dead, the; ra, shu  Mab   (Welsh, a baby)   In European folklore,  queen of the fairies. Shakespeare’s   Romeo and  Juliet   describes her as the “fairies’ midwife,”  that is, she delivers men’s brains to dreams.  Specific   reference   to   Mab   is   made   when  Romeo says: “I dreamed a dream tonight,” and  Mercatio replies, “Oh, then I see Queen Mab  hath been with you.” Berlioz’s dramatic sym -  phony   Romeo and Juliet   has a brilliant scherzo  depicting Queen Mab.  Maat  625

=== 페이지 643 ===
Mabinogion, The   Welsh collection of medi -  eval legends and tales translated into English  by Lady Charlotte Guest in 1838. It is believed  the tales were first written in Welsh in the  14th century, though some may date from the  11th century. Most of the tales deal with Celtic  myths and legends.  Mabon   (young   god)   In   Celtic   mythology,  a Welsh sun god and hero, son of Ruien and  Modron, brother of Owain, noted for his hunt -  ing, his hound, and his swift horse. Mabon  alone is able to seize a razor from behind the  ear of a boar. In later Arthurian legend Mabon  is   a   mortal   released   from   prison   by   King  Arthur, who needed his help in the chase of the  boar Twrch Trwyth.  See also:   arthur, king  Machaon   (lancet)   In Greek mythology, son  of the healing god Asclepius; brother of Acesis,  Aegle,   Hygieia,   Iaso,   Janiscus,   Panacea,   and  Podalirius; married Anticleia; father of Alexanor,  Gorgasus, and Nichomachus. Machaon was one  of the suitors of Helen, and after her abduction  he sailed for Troy with Podalirius and 30 ships.  He was a doctor who tended the Greeks during  the Trojan War. Some accounts say he was hid -  den in the wooden horse, but others say he was  killed before the war began. He was later wor -  shipped as a god. Machaon appears in Homer’s  Iliad   (book 2) and Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 2).  See also:   aeneid, the ; asclepius; helen of  troy;   iliad, the  Machira, Lake   In the folklore of the Carib  Indians of the Orinoco region of South America,  magic lake of the dead. It was believed that  most of the souls of the dead were swallowed  by great serpents in Lake Machira. The dead  were then carried by the serpents to “a land  of pleasure in which they entertain themselves  with dancing and feasting,” according to Fray  Ruiz,   a   17th-century   Christian   author   who  wrote about Indian beliefs in   Conversión en  Piritú de Indios Cumuanagotos y Palenques.  Maconaura and Anuanaitu   In the mythol -  ogy of the Carib Indian tribes of the Orinoco  region of South America, a primeval husband  and wife.  After   Adaheli,   a   creator   god,   had   made  man and woman, a handsome Indian was born,  Maconaura, who lived with his mother. He  was a fisherman, and one day he found that his  basket net had been broken and his fish stolen.  He set out to discover the thief and found that  a cayman, a form of South American crocodile,  had stolen the fish. Maconaura shot an arrow  between the eyes of the cayman, and it disap -  peared beneath the waters. Then Maconaura  heard a noise and found a beautiful Indian girl,  Anuanaitu, who was crying. He took her to his  home, for she was very young, and they lived  with his mother. When she was old enough, he  married her. After some time, however, Anua -  naitu killed Maconaura and his mother because  the cayman, which Maconaura had killed, was  her brother.  Macunaima   In Brazilian folklore, hero who  appears in the novel   Macunaima,   “the story of a  hero without a backbone,” by Brazilian novelist  Mario de Andrade (1893–1945). Macunaima is  described as “jet black,” a child of midnight,  who would not talk until he was six. When he  finally did speak, he said: “Oh, I’m too lazy.”  Madderakka   In   Finno-Ugric   mythology,  goddess of birth worshipped by the Lapps, with  three   goddess   daughters,   Sarakka,   Juksakka,  and   Uksakka.   Madderakka   was   responsible  for making women and cattle fertile and for  creating the body of the child in its mother’s  womb. Her daughter Sarakka helped women in  childbirth and also reindeer at the birth of their  calves. She was invoked by Lapp women during  menstruation. Juksakka, the second daughter,  was believed to change the girl child in the  womb into a boy child and was also invoked to  make boys into good hunters. Uksakka, the last  daughter, lived underground, protecting peo -  ple in their comings and goings. At childbirth  626   Mabinogion, The

=== 페이지 644 ===
she received the new child and watched over its  first steps so that it would not injure itself.  Mademoiselle Charlotte   In Haitian voo -  doo, a loa (deified spirit of the dead) who mani -  fests all the traits of a white European when she  mounts or takes possession of a person during  voodoo ritual. Thus, when she mounts a black  Haitian girl, the girl will then speak eloquent  European French. The goddess loves to be  shown all the respect due her office and will  work only for someone she takes a liking to.  Another loa of European background in Haitian  voodoo is Dinclinsin, who is believed to have  come to Haiti with Mademoiselle Charlotte.  Dinclinsin, however, is greatly feared because  of his extreme severity.  See also:   loa  Madira   In   Hindu   mythology,   goddess   of  wine and wife of Varuna, god of the ocean.  Madira is also called Varuni.  See also:   varuna  Maev   (Maeve, Medb, Meadhbh) (she who  intoxicates)   The most vibrant female person -  ality in all of Celtic mythology. She is queen of  Connaught, an evil war goddess in the cycle of  myths around the hero Cuchulain, who is killed  by her sorcery. She is often depicted with a bird  and a squirrel on her shoulders wearing a red  cloak and carrying a spear that is flaming. She  appears in numerous tales and legends as a licen -  tious queen. Her appearance deprived soldiers  of their strength; she was therefore the goddess  who drained men of sexual powers. In later  English folklore, Maev became Queen Mab,  queen of the fairies, later replaced by Titania.  See also:   cuchulain; mab  Magen David   (shield of David)   Modern  symbol of Judaism, the hexagram formed by  two equilateral triangles that have the same cen -  ter and are placed in opposite directions. The  Magen David is not found in the Old Testament  nor mentioned in the Talmud. It is believed to  have first been referred to by the 12th-century  writer Judah Hadassi. Sometimes it is called the  Star of David, but this is a misnomer.  Magi   In the Bible, N.T., wise men who  visited the Christ Child and offered gifts. The  account of the visit is found in Matthew (2:1–12),  which tells that when Jesus was born a star  appeared in the east. The Magi (or Wise Men  in some Bible translations) started from their  own country to follow the star. It guided them  to Judea. They went to King Herod and asked  him where the royal infant was to be found.  Herod did not know but asked the Magi to  make inquiries and report Jesus’ whereabouts  to him. The Wise Men left, and the star reap -  peared. They followed it, and it guided them  to a shed in Bethlehem where Mary and Joseph  had taken temporary lodgings. The Wise Men  entered and made their offerings. Warned by  an angel not to return to King Herod, they left  for their own lands.  In Cologne Cathedral in Germany visitors  were shown three heads, which they were told  were the heads of the three Wise Men. The  names given to them are Caspar (The White  One),   Melchior   (The   King   of   Light),   and  Balthazar (The Lord of Treasures). The New  Testament account does not name the Wise  Men nor does it say how many there were. The  three gifts signify kingly office (the gold); God -  head (the frankincense); and the coming death  of Christ (the myrrh).  Other names are given the three Wise Men:  Apellius, Amerus, and Damascus; Magalath,  Galgalath,   and   Sarasin;   or   Alor,   Sator,   and  Peratoras. Some legendary accounts say they  were Shem, Ham, and Japeth of the Old Tes -  tament, who had fallen asleep and awakened  when Christ was born.  In modern-day Germany and Austria chil -  dren still dress up as the Three Kings and go  from house to house and sing for the occu -  pants. When they leave they mark the entrance  with C M B. The chalk, sometimes salt, has  been blessed by the church.  Magi   627

=== 페이지 645 ===
628   Magi  The Adoration of the Magi   (Albrecht Dürer)

=== 페이지 646 ===
Magna   Mater   (great mother)   In Roman  mythology, epithet for Cybele and Rhea, both  mother goddesses. In Rome the worship of the  Magna Mater was introduced in 204   b.c.e.   at the  command of a Sibylline oracle, to pray for deliv -  erance from Hannibal in Italy. An embassy was  sent to fetch her holy stone from Pessinus, which  was conveyed into the city by the most virtuous  woman in Rome. A festival was then instituted in  honor of Magna Mater. Held 4 to 9 April, it was  called Megalesia (Greek, great mother’s rites).  See also:   great goddess  Magnes   (magnet)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  man whose shoe nails became magnetized while  he was walking over a mine; thus, our word   mag -  net.   Magnes was the son of Aeolus and Enarete;  father of Dictys and Polydectes by a naiad and  father of Eioneas, Hymenaeus, and Pierus. Some  accounts say Magnes was a slave of Medea, who  transformed him into a magnet.  See also:   aeolus; medea  magpie   A bird of the crow family with a long  tail and black and white plumage, often consid -  ered a bird of ill omen in European folklore. In  Christian symbolism the magpie represents the  devil or vanity. But the bird does possess some  good qualities, as in one English rhyme from  Lancashire:  One for sorrow two for mirth  Three for a wedding four for a death  Five’s a christening six a dearth  Seven’s heaven eight is hell  And nine’s the devil his ane sel.  Some variants change the fourth line to “four  for a birth.”  In Oriental folklore, such as Chinese, the  magpie is a sign of good luck. A chattering  magpie signifies the arrival of guests or some  good news. In Nordic mythology the magpie  is believed to be a soulbird, one that carries the  souls of the dead.  Mah   In Persian mythology, the moon god -  dess, whose light makes the plants grow.  Mahabharata, The   (great war of the Bharatas)  Hindu epic poem, longest in the world, con -  sisting of 110,000 couplets. It is divided into  18   parvans   (sections or books). The original  authorship or editing of the work is ascribed  to the sage Vyasa, though the entire work was  written over subsequent centuries, displaying  numerous additions. Dates for the compilation  of the epic range from 400   b.c.e.   to 200   c.e.  The   frame   tale—the   war   between   two  branches of the same family—takes up about  one-fourth of the poem; the rest deals with  such diverse subjects as mythology, folktales,  and cosmology. It also contains philosophical  digressions such as the Bhagavad-Gita, perhaps  the most famous section of the entire work,  inserted as episodes and subepisodes.  The   following   summary   gives   the   main  incidents and details connected with the epic  proper, that is, the tale of the great war.  There was once a king named Santanu, a  descendant of Bharata, who had a son Bhishma.  In his old age King Santanu wished to marry  again,   but   the   hereditary   rights   of   his   son  Bhishma were an obstacle to the king in obtain -  ing a favorable match. Bhishma, in order to  assist his father in his quest to marry, gave up  his rights to the throne. The king then married  Satyavati, who bore him two sons. The eldest,  Chitrangada, succeeded to the throne but was  killed. He was followed by his brother, Vichitra-  virya, who died without any offspring but left  two wives, Ambika and Ambalika, daughters of  King Kasi. Satyavati then called on Vyasa, the  half brother of her husband, to fulfill the law and  father children in the name of Vichitra-virya.  Vyasa had lived the life of a hermit in the for -  ests, and his severe fasts had completely wasted  his body, so he was quite ugly. The two widows  were so frightened by his appearance that the  elder one closed her eyes when making love; she  gave birth to a blind son, Dhrita-rashtra. The  Mahabharata, The   629

=== 페이지 647 ===
younger widow turned so pale that her son was  called Pandu (the pale).  Satyavati wanted a child without any physi -  cal blemish. So instead of sleeping with Vyasa  herself she substituted her slave girl, who bore  a son, Vidura. The three children, Dhrita-  rashtra, Pandu, and Vidura, were brought up  by their uncle, Bhishma, who acted as regent.  When they came of age the throne was not  given to Dhritarashtra because he was blind but  went instead to Pandu.  Pandu had two wives, Kunti (Pritha) and  Madri, but he did not have intercourse with  either. Some believe he suffered from leprosy  (his name meaning “pale”). Pandu left for the  Himalaya Mountains. His two wives, however,  had five children, all fathered by different gods.  Pandu acknowledged them as his before he  died, and they were called the Pandavas. Kunti  was the mother of the three oldest sons, Madri  the mother of the two younger ones.  Yudhi-shthira (firm in fight) was the son of  Yama, god of the dead; Bhima (the terrible) was  the son of Vayu, the wind god; Arjuna (white;  bright; silvery) was the son of Indra, the storm  god. Nakula and Saha-deva, the sons of Madri,  were followed by Surya, the sun god.  The other branch of the family, that of  Dhrita-rashtra, had 100 sons and 1 daughter,  Duh-sala.   From   their   ancestor,   Kuru,   they  were known as the Kauravas.  Thus the two major branches of the family,  and the two contending forces in the epic, are  the Pandavas and the Kauravas. The Pandava  sons were brought up in the court of King  Dhritarashtra,   their   uncle,   but   because   he  showed them favor over his own sons (he nom -  inated Yudhishthira to be his heir apparent), a  feud broke out between the two branches. To  stop the fight the Pandavas were sent into exile.  However, one cousin, Duryodhana, plotted to  destroy the Pandavas completely. He had their  house set afire. All five sons were thought to be  dead, though they escaped into the forest.  While the Pandavas were living in the forest,  they heard that King Draupada had proclaimed  a   swayamvara,   a tournament in which the daugh -  ter of the king would choose her husband from  the contenders. The Kauravas also heard of the  contest and went to seek the hand of Draupadi,  daughter of the king. Being in exile, the Pandavas  disguised themselves as Brahmans (priests). At  the contest the Pandavas won every feat. After  they had thrown off their disguises, the winner  of the bride was seen to be Arjuna. The broth -  ers took Draupadi home and told their mother,  Kunti, they had made a great acquisition. Kunti,  not knowing they meant Draupadi, told them to  share it among themselves. A mother’s command  could not be evaded, and Draupadi became the  common wife of all five brothers. Each husband  belonged to her for a specific time, during which  the others were not to interfere.  Because they had revealed themselves at  the   swayamvara   King   Dhrita-rashtra   called  the Pandu brothers back to court and divided  his kingdom. Prince Yudhi-shthira was chosen  king of the territory given the Pandavas. After  having conquered many other countries, King  Yudhi-shthira decided he wanted to perform  a great horse sacrifice, to set up his claim as  universal ruler and king of kings. This move  excited the jealousy of the Kauravas, who plot -  ted to destroy the vain king. They persuaded  King   Yudhi-shthira   to   gamble with   Sakuni,  their uncle, who was a cheat. At the end of the  gamble Yudhi-shthira lost his entire kingdom,  as well as his family. King Dhrita-rashtra forced  the Kauravas to restore both to Yudhi-shthira,  but he again gambled them away. This time he  and his brothers were forced into exile in the  forest for 12 years. In the 13th year they joined,  in disguise, the service of the king of Virata.  The Pandavas now determined to recover  their lost kingdom. The king of Virata became  their ally, and preparations were made for war.  Krishna (an incarnation of the god Vishnu)  and his brother Balarama, relatives of both  the   Pandavas   and   Kauravas,   took   the   side  of the Pandavas. Krishna acted as charioteer  for his friend Arjuna. It was in this role that  Krishna spoke the great Bhagavad-Gita, the  630   Mahabharata, The

=== 페이지 648 ===
most famous philosophical part of the epic,  while the rival armies were drawn up for battle  at Kurukshetra, a plain north of Delhi.  Many battles follow in the epic, the end  result being that the Pandavas are the victors.  But that is not the end of the epic, for it goes  on with the lives of the survivors. Filled with  remorse for all of the slaughter he caused, King  Yudhi-shthira   abdicated   his   throne,   leaving  with his brothers for the Himalayas to reach  the heaven of Indra, the storm god, located on  Mount Meru. The journey was not easy because  sins and moral defects proved fatal to the pil -  grims. The first to die was Draupadi because  “too   great   was   her   love   for   Arjuna.”   Next  was Saha-deva, who “esteemed none equal to  himself.” Then Nakula: “ever was the thought  in his heart, ‘There is none equal in beauty to  me.’   ” The great hero Arjuna was next. He said,  “In one day I could destroy all my enemies.”  He died because he boasted and did not fulfill  his boast. When Bhima fell, he asked the rea -  son for his death and was told, “When thou  last looked on thy foe, thou hast cursed him  with thy breath; therefore thou fallest today.”  Yudhi-shthira went on alone with his faithful  dog until he reached the gate of heaven. He was  invited by Indra to enter, but he refused unless  his brothers and Draupadi could also enter. He  was told they were already there, but when he  entered he saw all of the Kauravas there instead.  He left heaven and was sent to hell, where he  heard the voices of his family. He then resolved  to stay with them. He was told, however, that  this was merely a test, an illusion, for he and  his brothers and friends were in Indra’s heaven.  See   also:   arjuna;   balarama;   bharata;  bhima; bhishma; brahman; draupadi; frame  tale; indra; krishna; meru; surya; vayu  Mahagir   (Magaye)   In Burmese mythology,  a   nat,   or supernatural being, in whose honor a  coconut is hung on a porch of every Burmese  home. Mahagir is portrayed standing on a plat -  form, holding a sword in one hand and a leaf fan  in the other. The platform is held up by three  demons who are sitting on a kneeling elephant.  See also:   nats  Maharajikas   In Hindu mythology, lesser or  inferior gods, whose numbers range from 220  to 236.  Maharishi   (great sage)   In Hinduism, a term  applied to holy men or sages, the term derived  from the Prajapatis, the progenitors of the  human race in Hindu mythology, who are often  called Maharishis.  Mahasthamaprapta   (he   that   has   obtained  great strength)   In Buddhism, an attendant  of Amitabha Buddha displaying the   mudra   of  worship. In Chinese Buddhism he is called Ta-  shih-chih; in Japanese Buddhism, Daiseishi.  See also:   amitabha; mudra  Mahavira   (great hero)   Believed to have lived  in the fifth or sixth century   b.c.e.,   contemporary  of the Buddha. Mahavira’s original name was  Vardhamana. His legendary life is found in the  Kalpa Sutra,   a sacred book in Jainism that con -  tains the lives of the Tirthamkara. According to  that account, on the night in which Mahavira  “took the form of an embryo in the womb” of  his mother, Devananda, the wife of a Brahmin,  was “on her couch, taking fits of sleep, in a state  between sleeping and waking, and having seen  the 14 illustrious, beautiful, lucky, blest, suspi -  cious, fortunate great dreams, she woke up. To  wit: an elephant, a bull, a lion, the anointing of  the goddess Sri, a garland, the moon, the sun,  a flag, a vase, a lotus lake, the ocean, a celestial  abode, a heap of jewels, and a flame.   .   .   .”  All of these symbols were taken as signs  that an important son would be born, one well  versed in the learning of the Hindu sages. While  this was happening, however, Shakra, the chief  of the gods decided to take the embryo from  Devananda’s womb and place it in the womb of  Trisala, a member of the warrior caste. When  Mahavira   631

=== 페이지 649 ===
Mahavira was born, “the gods and goddesses  came down from heaven to show their joy.”  The boy lived a normal life and later mar -  ried Yashoda, by whom he had a daughter,  Riyadarshana, but then decided to leave his  worldly   life.   He   gave   away   his   wealth   and  became an ascetic. When this happened “the  gods came down from heaven .   .   . and did him  homage.” He continued as an ascetic for 12  years, and then “he sat down near an ancient  temple under the sala [teak] tree and remained  motionless for two and a half days, fasting  and plunged in the deepest meditation. When  he arose on the third day enlightenment was  complete.”   After   30   years   of   preaching   he  entered Nirvana, and the gods accompanied  him. In Oriental art Mahavira is often por -  trayed enthroned, with a mirror, a vase, a water  vessel, a   srivastsa   (said to represent a curl from  the god Krishna’s breast), and a swastika.  Other Tirthamkara resemble Buddhas but are  distinguished from them by being naked, with  eyes wide open, lacking a head bump ( usnisa ),  and usually having a diamond-shaped mark in  the middle of the chest, representing the   jiva   (the  indestructible personal life force, or soul).  See also:   nirvana; tirthamkara; ushnisha  Mahayana   (great way of liberation)   A form  of Buddhism that is believed to have appeared  sometime between the first century   b.c.e.   and  the first century   c.e.   It holds that the true teach -  ing of Buddhism is of wider appeal, with a great  deal of emphasis on the virtue of compassion,  in contrast to what it calls the Hinayana school  of Buddhism, which it claims places greater  emphasis on wisdom. Mahayana Buddhism has  produced many myths and legends in compari -  son to those produced by Hinayana Buddhism.  The other major form of Buddhism, Hinayana  (small vehicle or vehicle to be abandoned) is  a derogatory name for a series of preliminary  teachings and practices preserved in fossilized  form within Mahayana Buddhism. Hinayana  is similar to but by no means identical with  the   living   lineage   of   Theravada.   Mahayana  is more complex than Theravada, but recent  research has illuminated the supposed differ -  ence between them as being that Mahayana  stands more for “wisdom” and Theravada more  for “compassion.” Some Mahayana teachers  take Hinayana to mean the inner motivation to  liberate oneself and not help others, whether or  not one is outwardly a follower of Mahayana.  Maheo   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Cheyenne), creator god, the All-Spirit,  who created all life by his power.  Mahrach   In Australian mythology, an evil  spirit closely connected with death, often called  the black ghost. He appears before the death of  a person.  Maia   In Greek and Roman mythology, moth -  er of Hermes by Zeus; one of the Pleiades;  daughter of Pleione and Atlas. Maia is also  632   Mahayana  Maia   (C ybele )

=== 페이지 650 ===
one of the names of the Great Mother god -  dess   Cybele.   The   Romans   identified   Maia  with an ancient Italian goddess of spring, Maia  Maiestas, and with Fauna, Bona Dea, and Ops.  She was said to be the wife of Vulcan, to whom  the priests of the god sacrificed on 1 May. The  Latin word   maia   gives the name to the month  of May in the Roman calendar and may derive  from a word for sow (female pig). The Greek  word   maia   is probably another form of   maias  (midwife) and was used as a term of affection  for old women (good mother) and nurses (fos -  ter-mother), as well as female doctors.  See also:   atlas; bona dea; great goddess;  hermes; ops; pleiades; vulcan  Maiden   of   Pohjola   In the Finnish epic  poem   The Kalevala,   elder daughter of Louhi,  the evil mistress of Pohjola, the Northland.  Louhi promised her daughter, the Maiden  of Pohjola, to Vainamoinen, the culture hero,  if he would forge the magic sampo for her.  The   hero   consented,   but   he   commissioned  Ilmarinen to forge the sampo for him. When  Vainamoinen left Louhi, he was told not to  look to the sky or else some evil would befall  him. Of course, as he set out, he looked to the  heavens and saw the Maiden of Pohjola, beauti -  fully dressed, spinning. Moved by her beauty,  he called to her:  Come into my sledge, O maiden,  In the sledge beside me seat thee.  The maiden, however, was not so easily  moved by the old man. When he told her she  should be married, she replied that wives “are  like dogs enchained in kennel.” Vainamoinen  insisted that women are actually queens when  married. The maiden replied she would no  longer listen to his wooing unless he completed  some tasks she would assign him. The hero  accomplished all except the last, fashioning a  ship out of her broken spindle. In the attempt  Vainamoinen accidentally cut his knee. He was  healed only when he sang the magic words of  the origin of iron.  Vainamoinen’s   bad   luck   with   the   maiden  did not stop Ilmarinen from forging the magic  sampo, which entitled him to the beautiful girl.  At first she did not want to marry Ilmarinen, but  eventually she agreed. Frequently in the epic she  is called Ilmarinen’s Lady. She was later mur -  dered by Kullervo, a disgruntled servant.  Sibelius used the wooing of the Maiden of  Pohjola by Vainamoinen as the basis for his  symphonic poem   Pohjola’s Daughter.  See also:   ilmarinen;   kalevala, the ; kul-  lervo; louhi; sampo; vainamoinen  Maiden without Hands   In German folk -  lore, one of the tales in the Grimm Brothers  collection. In their version a poor miller is  promised riches by an old man (the devil) if he  will give the old man what is standing behind  his mill. The miller accepts, assuming that only  an apple tree is there. He returns home to find  that it was his daughter who had been stand -  ing behind the mill at that moment. When the  old man comes to claim his prize, the girl has  bathed and has drawn a magical chalk circle  around herself, which the devil cannot cross.  The devil is thus frustrated and demands that  the miller cut off the hands of his daughter,  which the miller does reluctantly. The girl  wanders off into the woods and meets a king  who has silver hands made for her. They marry,  and the king is then also deceived by the devil  when a message announcing the birth of the  king’s child is changed to read that the queen  bore a monster and that the queen and her  child are to be put to death. When the queen  flees with her child, the king goes in search  of his family. He is aided by an angel, and the  family is reunited. The story of the Maiden  without Hands is tale type 706.  See also:   grimm brothers; tale type  Maidere   In   Siberian   mythology,   a   savior  hero in Tartar myth derived from the Buddhist  Maitreya,   the   living   or   coming   Buddha.  Maidere   633

=== 페이지 651 ===
Maidere will fight Erlik, the devil, at the end of  the world. Ulgen, a creator god, will send down  Maidere to teach the love of God and convert  mankind. Erlik, however, will then kill Maidere  out of envy, but the hero’s blood will cover the  whole earth and burst into flames that will rise  to the heavens. Ulgen will then call the dead to  rise, and Erlik and his evil companions will be  destroyed.  See also:   erlik; maitreya; ulgen  Maid Marion   (rebellion, wished for child?)  In British legend, the mistress of Robin Hood.  She appears in the late Robin Hood ballads,  disguised   as   a   page   boy   who   lived   among  Robin’s men until she was discovered, and she  was married to Robin with Christian rites.  See also:   robin hood  Mailkun   In Australian mythology, an evil  spirit, wife of Koen. She captures adults in her  net and spears children to death. She is also  called Tipakalleum.  Maît Carrefour   In Haitian voodoo, a loa  (deified spirit of the dead) who is master of the  demons of the night and is invoked for protec -  tion against them. No one whispers or smiles  in the presence of Maît Carrefour. He is also  called Kalfu.  See also:   loa  Maît Gran Bois   In Haitian voodoo, the loa  (deified spirit of the dead) who rules over for -  ests, woods, and plant life.  See also:   grand bois d’ilet; loa  Maitreya   (he whose name is kindness)   In  Buddhism, name of the Buddha of the Future  or the Buddha Who Is to Come. Now he lives  in the Tushita heaven. When he comes the  world will be renewed. The Buddhists have a  legend that tells how Ananda, a disciple of the  Buddha, asked his master what would happen  after Buddha’s death.  “Who shall teach us when thou art gone?”  asked Ananda. The Buddha replied: “I am not  the first Buddha who came upon earth, nor  shall I be the last. I came to teach you the truth,  and I have founded on earth the kingdom of  truth. Gautama Siddhartha will die, but Bud -  dha will live, for Buddha is the truth, and the  truth cannot die. He who believes in truth and  lives it is my disciple, and I shall teach him.  The truth will be propagated and the kingdom  of truth will increase for about five hundred  years. Then for a while the clouds of error will  darken the light, and in due time another Bud -  dha will arise, and he will reveal to you the self -  same eternal truth which I have taught you.”  Ananda asked, “How shall we know him?” The  Buddha replied: “The Buddha that will come  after me will be known as Maitreya.”  Often   the   inscription   “Come   Maitreya,  come” is found carved on rocks in Buddhist  Mongolia   and   Tibet.   In   Pali   the   name   is  rendered   Metteyya;   in   Tibet,   Maitreya   is  called Byams-pa; in China, Mi-lo-fo or Pu-tai  Hoshang; and in Japan, Miroku Bosatsu. Pu-tai  was an eccentric monk who was later thought  to have been Maitreya. He was also approxi -  mated to the god of luck. A fat, jolly figure, he  is worshipped for happiness and riches; known  as Hotei O-sho in Japan.  See also:   ananda; buddha, the; miroku  bosatsu  Maît Source   In Haitian voodoo, a loa (dei -  fied spirit of the dead) who is chosen by a group  to watch over streams, lakes, and rivers. Often  a cup of water is placed on his altar.  See also:   loa  Majestas   (greatness,   dignity)   In   Roman  mythology, goddess of reverence, majesty, and  honor; daughter of Honor and Reverentia.  Makara   In Hindu mythology, a fantastic ani -  mal with the head and forelegs of an antelope  and the body and tail of a fish. Makara is the  mount of the ocean god Varuna, and his figure  634   Maid Marion

=== 페이지 652 ===
is shown on the banner of Kama, god of love.  He represents the sign of Capricorn in the  Hindu zodiac. Makara is also called Jala-rupa  (water foam) and Asita-danshtra (black teeth).  See also:   capricorn; kama; varuna  Makonaima   (Makanaima,   Mackonaima,  Makunaima, Makaniama) (one who works in  the night?)   In the mythology of the Indian  tribes of the Orinoco and Guiana regions of  South America, a creator god.  “In the beginning,” according to the account  by W. H. Brett in his book   The Indian Tribes of  Guiana,   Makonaima created birds and beasts.  They “were all endowed with the gift of speech.  Sigu, the son of Makonaima, was placed to rule  over them. All lived in harmony together and  submitted to his gentle dominion.” This ideal  paradise did not last. When Sigu uprooted a  great tree planted by Makonaima, he found the  stump was filled with water, and a great flood  ensued. To save the animals, Sigu took some  of them to a cave, which he sealed; the others  he took to the top of a tree. He dropped large  seeds from time to time to test if the waters were  receding, until finally the sound of a splash was  no longer heard. When the animals came down,  however,   they   had   changed   somewhat:   the  arauta howls from his discomfort in the trees,  and the trumpeter bird’s legs had been chewed  by ants, so they are now bony and thin.  Eventually the earth was again populated,  but Sigu was persecuted by two evil brothers,  who beat him. Each time he was killed he rose  again, but finally he ascended a high hill and  disappeared into the sky.  In another creation myth about Makonaima,  told by Boddam-Whetham in   Roraima and Brit -  ish Guiana,   no mention is made of Sigu. After  having created heaven and earth, Makonaima sat  down beside a silk-cotton tree by a river, cutting  off pieces of its bark. When he cast the bark into  the river, fish and birds arose from it. When he  cast it on the ground, people and animals arose.  In another myth Makonaima made a “large  mould, and out of this fresh, clean clay the  white man stepped. After it got a little dirty the  Indian was formed, and Spirit [Makonaima]  being called away on business for a long period  the mould became black and unclean, and out  of it walked the Negro.”  See also:   roraima, mount  Malec   (Malik)   In Islamic mythology, princi -  pal angel in charge of Djahannam (hell). Malec  rules the Zabaniya, who are the guardians of  Djahannam according to some accounts; in  others, angels who carry the souls of the dead  to hell. In the Koran (sura 43) sinners call upon  Malec to intercede for them with Allah. Malec,  however, remains silent and will not answer the  sinners until a thousand years after the Day of  Judgment. And when he does answer, he will  offer no hope, saying that sinners must remain  in Djahannam for eternity.  See also:   allah; koran, the  Malingee   In Australian mythology, the spirit  of the night, who during his travels in the dark  seeks to find his way home. Malingee’s knees  knock together as he walks. Both people and  beasts fear him, for he kills tribesmen with his  stone ax at the slightest provocation. Other  animals, such as the eagle hawk, may be killed  with the stone knives attached to his elbows.  His face is said to be an awful sight, with burn -  ing eyes that make him appear to be a devil.  Mama   Allpa   In   Peruvian   Indian   mythol -  ogy, earth goddess invoked for a good harvest;  depicted with numerous breasts as a symbol of  her fertility.  Mamandabari   In Australian mythology, two  culture heroes, either two brothers or father  and son. They emerged out of the ground in  the north and traveled south, either under -  ground or by flying, teaching men various ritu -  als and customs.  Mama   Quilla   In Inca mythology, moon  goddess, sister and wife of Inti, the sun, and  Mama Quilla   635

=== 페이지 653 ===
protector of married women. Many temples  were dedicated to her worship, the most famous  being the Coricancha at Cuzco, capital of the  Inca empire. Cuzco was founded by the first  Inca king, Manco Capac, according to some  accounts the son of Inti and Mama Quilla.  See also:   inti; manco capac  Mammon   (riches)   In the Bible, N.T., per -  sonification of wealth, money, property, and  profit. In Matthew 6:24 and Luke 16:13 Jesus  says, “You cannot serve God and mammon.”  Christian folklore turned the word into the  name of a demon of avarice, equating Mammon  with Lucifer and Satan. John Milton in   Paradise  Lost   says Mammon was “the last erected spirit  that fell” from heaven. He was, according to  Milton,   “always   downward   bent,”   admiring  the gold that paved heaven’s floor. Money is  sometimes   called   the   “mammon   of   unrigh -  teousness.” Mammon is the ambassador of hell  to England in De Plancy’s   Dictionnaire Infernal,  written in the 19th century.  See also:   lucifer; satan  Manabozho   (Manibozho, Manibozoho, Mi-  chabo,   Nanabozho,   Nanabush)   In   North  American   Indian   mythology   (Algonquian),  trickster, transformer, culture hero, creator of  the earth.  Many   19th-century   scholars   confused  Manabozho with the historical figure Hiawatha  and the mythical figure Gluskap. Today, most  scholars agree that all three are different enti -  ties. There are many variant myths relating to  Manabozho among the Algonquians. In one,  told by the Potawatomi, he was the oldest of  four children. The fourth, Flint, killed their  mother at his birth. Both Manabozho and the  second son had human form, but the third  became   a   white   hare   and   magician.   When  Manabozho grew up he killed his brother Flint,  but the gods became angry and killed the sec -  ond brother as punishment. Manabozho went  on a warpath against them. To stop his wrath  the gods initiated him in the Midewiwin, the  sacred medicine society. The second brother  was brought back to life to preside over the  souls of the dead, and Manabozho then initi -  ated the Indians in the Midewiwin.  See also:   gluskap and malsum; hiawatha;  trickster  Managarm   (moon’s dog)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, an evil giant in the form of a wolf, off -  spring of a giantess. According to the   Prose  Edda,   Managarm “will be filled with the life-  blood of men who draw near their end, and will  swallow up the moon, and stain the heavens  and the earth with blood. Then shall the sun  grow dim, and the winds howl tumultuously to  and fro,” at the end of the world, Ragnarok.  See also:   garm; ragnarok  Mananaan   (he of the Isle of Man)   In Celtic  mythology, son of the sea god Lir, a Tuatha  de Danann, husband of Fand and Uchtdelbh,  father of Mongan and Niamh. Mananaan had  a ship,   Wave Sweeper,   which was self-propelled,  as well as a horse, Splendid Mane, with which  he traveled over the sea. Mananaan was patron  god of Irish seamen, protector of the Isle of  Man and the Isle of Aran, where his home,  Emhain of the Apple Trees, was located. In  Welsh mythology he is known as Manawyddan  and possessed a magic chariot as well as a  cloak of invisibility. In   Ulysses   James Joyce calls  the “whitemaned seahorses, champing, bright-  windbridled, the steeds of Mananaan.”  See also:   avalon; flidais; lir; tuatha de  danann  Manasseh   (making to forget)   In the Bible,  O.T., name of the 14th king of Judah; son of  Hezekiah (2 Kings 21:1–18), said to have been an  evil king. “The Prayer of Manasseh” is not found  in the Old Testament but in the Old Testament  Apocrypha and is used in some services of   The  Book of Common Prayer   (1979 American Version)  during times of penitence. Manasseh is also the  name of Joseph’s first son (Gen. 41:51).  See also:   joseph  636   Mammon

=== 페이지 654 ===
Manco Capac and Mama Oello Huaco  (Manko   Kapak   and   Coya   Mama)   In   Inca  mythology, first king and queen; they were  brother and sister, and children of the sun.  Manco Capac is the culture hero of the  Incas.   Before   he   arrived,   according   to   the  Comentarios reales de los Incas   (1609), written by  the half-Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, people lived  like wild beasts, with “neither order nor reli -  gion, neither villages nor houses, neither fields  nor clothing.” The sun god, pitying the sad  plight of mankind, sent his son Manco Capac  and his daughter Mama Oello Huaco to earth  near Lake Titicaca. He gave them a golden rod  that was slightly shorter than a man’s arm and  about two fingers in thickness.  “Plunge the rod into the earth,” the sun  god told the two. “The spot where the rod  disappears, there you must establish and hold  your court.”  After some journeying they came to Huana -  cauri, where the rod sank deep into the earth.  Then the couple separated, each taking the  good news of the sun god’s love to the people.  They “taught their subjects everything that had  to do with human living.”  Some 30 or 40 years after the descent of  Manco Capac and Mama Oello Huaco, Manco  Capac left his kingdom to his son Sinchi Roca,  who became the next Inca king.  Garcilaso’s account is but one of many about  the first Inca king and the origin of the Incas.  In an account by Ramos Gavilan in   Historia del  celebre Santuario de Nuestra Señora de Copaca -  bana   (1621), Manco Capac is said to have been  merely a human being who dressed in golden  robes and fooled the people into believing in  his divine origin. This account is prejudiced  because the Spanish author wished to destroy  the sources of Inca respect for their past.  Another account, given by José de Acosta  in   Historia natural y moral de las Indias   (1590),  which is earlier than either of of the other two,  says that Manco Capac was the founder and  chief of the Incas, who came out of “a certain  cave by a window, by whom men first began  to multiply; and for this reason they call them  Paccari-tambo   [inn of origin].”  mandala   (circle)   In   Hindu   and   Buddhist  ritual, a mystical diagram, usually circular in  outline. Its purpose is to gather vital spiritual  forces together. The mandala is a sacred moun -  tain or house that presents reality ordered in  such a way as to liberate those who meditate  on   or   enter   into   it,   according   to   Buddhist  belief. When drawn in two dimensions, the  mandala appears as a circle contained in a  square. It is painted on cloth or paper or drawn  on the ground with colored rice or pebbles.  It may also be engraved on stone or metal.  Some mandalas present a detailed representa -  tion of the universe, including the Buddhas  and Bodhisattvas, gods and spirits, mountains  and oceans, and the Zodiac, as well as great  teachers. The mandalas have descended from  ancient   traditions   of   magic.   Carl   Jung,   the  Swiss psychologist, discusses the mandala fre -  quently in his works. He sees it as a symbolic  representation of the “nuclear atom” of the  human psyche, whose essence we do not know.  Jung confused quartermites with mandalas: all  mandalas are quartermites; some quartermites  are mandalas.  See also:   bodhisattva; mudra  mandrake   A   narcotic   plant   of   the   night -  shade family; in world mythology and folklore,  believed to be an aphrodisiac. It appears in  Genesis   (30:14–24)   in   the   conflict   between  Rachel and Leah, the wives of Jacob. Leah gets  the mandrake root from Rachel’s youngest son  in order to become pregnant. In English the  mandrake is often called love apple. The Arabs  call the mandrake the “apples of the djinn,” or  devil’s apples, because they consider the rous -  ing of sexual desire evil. In Machiavelli’s play  La Mandragola   the plot hinges on the aphro -  disiac qualities of the mandrake. Shakespeare’s  Henry VI, Part II   (3:2) alludes to some of the  folk beliefs about the root, such as that when it  is torn from the ground it will utter groans, and  mandrake   637

=== 페이지 655 ===
the person who pulls it will either go mad, die,  or both. Sometimes a cord was fixed to the root  and placed around a dog’s neck. When the dog  drew the root out, it died. Juliet, in   Romeo and  Juliet   (act 4, sc.3), before drinking the sleeping  potion, lists her fears and apprehensions:  And shrieks like mandrakes’ torn out of  the   earth,   That   living   mortals,   hearing  them, run mad.  During the Middle Ages, Christians associ -  ated the mandrake with the devil. Witches were  said to fashion figures of people out of the plant  root as a charm to do harm. Ludwig Tieck  includes an episode with a mandrake root in his  novel   Der Runenberg   (1804). Thomas Newton  in his   Herball to the Bible   said: “It is supposed to  be a creature having life engendered under the  earth, of the seed of some dead person put to  death for murder.”  See also:   jacob; leah  Manes   (good or kindly spirits)   In Roman  mythology,   good   spirits   believed   to   preside  over the burying places and monuments of the  dead. Their mother was believed to be the god -  dess Mania, mother of Lares and Manes, father  of Cottys by Callirrhoë. Sacrifices of food were  offered to the Manes, and the blood of black  sheep, pigs, and oxen were poured over graves  during their festival, the Feralia, held between  18 and 21 February, during which time the  temples were closed. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 3)  cites the Manes. Often   Dis Manibus sacrum   was  inscribed on tombstones with the name of the  dead person.  See also:   aeneid, the ; callirrhoë; lares;  manes  Mani   In the mythology of the Indians of  Brazil, a culture hero who taught his people  various arts. When he was about to die, he  predicted that a year after his death the people  would find a great treasure, the manioc plant  ( manihot esculenta ). One year after Mani’s death  the plant was found. This myth forms the basis  for José Viera Couto de Magalhaes’s   O Selvagem,  in which a variant of the story is told.  manitou   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy, a word used in various Algonquian lan -  guages for spirit or divine being. This spirit  inhabits all living things, wind, thunder, ani -  mals, plants, rocks, as well as the sun and the  moon. The manitou often appears in dreams  and   gives   special   power   or   protection.   In  Germany   there   is   a   “Manitou   and   Indian”  club that celebrates the writings of Karl May  (1842–1912) every year in Radebeul. May was  a writer of adventure books still read by young  German boys, and the name manitou appears  often in his books.  Manjushri   (wisdom)   In   Mahayana   Bud-  dhism, the personification of the Transcendent  Wisdom of the Buddha. In Chinese Buddhist  legend he was a Bodhisattva who was told by  the Buddha that it was his duty to turn the  Wheel of the Dharma and convert the Chinese.  638   Manes  Manjushri

=== 페이지 656 ===
He chose a five-peaked mountain in Shan-shi  province; one peak was made of diamonds, the  next of sapphires, then emeralds, rubies, and  lapis lazuli. On each grew a flower of a special  color, and a pagoda was on the summit of each  peak. Manjushri’s symbols are the sword of  wisdom, a book, and the blue lotus; his   mudra   is  turning the Wheel of the Law. A lion supports  his throne, or he is shown riding on a lion.  See also:   bodhisattva; buddha, the; dhar-  ma; mahayana; mudra  Manman Brigitte   In Haitian voodoo, a loa  (deified spirit of the dead) invoked by peo -  ple who are constantly embroiled in disputes.  Manman Brigitte does not have her own altar in  the Oum’phor (voodoo temple) but is invoked in  her favorite tree, the weeping willow or the elm.  She is asked to bring disaster on one’s enemies,  who are assumed to be enemies of the goddess  as well. Her principal site of worship was located  in the main cemetery of Port-au-Prince, Haiti,  but her sacred elm was cut down by government  and Catholic authorities because many people  were seen praying to Manman Brigitte by plac -  ing lighted candles at the foot of her tree. Also  known as Mademoiselle Brigitte.  See also:   loa  Manta   (Huecu)   In   the   folklore   of   the  Araucanian Indians of Chile, a cuttlefish that  lives in deep lakes. When it cries, it causes  the water to boil. If any person enters the  water, the Manta rises to the surface, drags  him down, and eats him. Sometimes it has  intercourse with other animals and produces  monsters. To kill it, one must throw it branches  of the quisco, a bush covered with spines that  grows in Chile. A similar monster cuttlefish,  called   Trelquehuecuve,   whose   tentacles   end  in hooves, will squeeze to death anything that  comes within its reach.  manticore   (man-eater)   Fantastic   animal  with a lion’s body, human head, and scorpion  tail. In medieval Christian belief the manticore  was a symbol of the devil. Sometimes the ani -  mal appears in artworks showing the Hebrew  prophet Jeremiah.  Manu   (man)   In Hindu mythology, a word  for the 14 progenitors of the human race,  each   of   whom   hold   sway   for   4,320,000  years.   The   names   of   the   14   are   Swayam-  bhuya (self-created), an epithet of Brahma;  Swarochisha;   Auttami;   Tamasa;   Raivata  (brilliant);   Chakshusha   (perceptible   by   the  eye);   Vaivaswata   or   Satya-vrata;   Savarna;  Daksha (dextrous); Brahma-savarna; Savarna  or   Rudra-savarna;   Rauchya;   and   Bhautya.  Vaivaswata, the seventh Manu, is connected  with one version of the myth of the Great  Flood in Hindu mythology.  One morning, while Vaivaswata was wash -  ing his hands, he caught a fish.  “Take care of me and I will preserve you,”  the fish told Vaivaswata.  “From what will you preserve me?” Vaivas -  wata asked.  “A flood will carry away all living beings; I  will save you from that,” the fish replied.  The fish then told Vaivaswata to keep him  alive in an earthen vessel and to put him in a  larger container as he grew, eventually plac -  ing him in the ocean. The fish grew rapidly  and was moved from the smaller container to  Manu   639  Manticore

=== 페이지 657 ===
larger ones and then to the ocean. The fish  then told Vaivaswata to construct a ship, or  ark, in which Vaivaswata was to go abroad.  Vaivaswata did as he was told.  The   Great   Flood   came,   and   Vaivaswata  fastened the cable of the ship to the fish’s large  magic   horn.   He   passed   over   the   northern  mountain and later tied the ship to a tree when  the waters receded. Vaivaswata saw that all men  and women had been destroyed. Desiring to  have children, he prayed and made sacrifice. A  woman was produced who came to Vaivaswata,  saying she was his daughter. With her he lived  “worshipping and toiling in arduous religious  rites, desirous of offspring. With her he begat  the offspring which is the offspring of Manu.”  See also:   brahma; noah  Man Who Knew How to Cure a Snake  Bite, The   A kind man named Sokh went into  the forest to cut firewood. There he found a  tiger lying dead over a snake’s hole. He took  out some snake-bite ointment and rubbed the  tiger with it so that the tiger came back to life.  The tiger was angry at Sokh for making him  dirty and said that he was just sleeping, and  now he would eat Sokh for his evening meal.  Sokh asked for leave to find someone to judge  his case and quickly found a horse and a buffa -  lo. When these two heard the story they sided  with the tiger, lest he also eat them as part of  his meal. Sokh then found Judge Rabbit, who  agreed to pass judgment when Sokh and the  tiger met with him. The Judge told the tiger to  go back to the forest and lie down on the snake  hole. “When you wake up, if you have not died,  then you may eat this man.” The tiger did as he  was told, and the snake came out and bit him  mortally. Judge Rabbit then told Sokh that he  should not rub any of his ointment on the tiger.  The moral of the story: Doing good does not  always pay off.  See also:   rabbit; snake; tiger  Maori   In   African   mythology   (Makoni   of  Zimbabwe), sky and creator god; creator of  Mwuetsi, the first man, and Massassi, the first  woman. Maori gave Mwuetsi (Mwuetse) a horn  filled with magic oil and settled him at the bot -  tom of a primeval lake. But Mwuetsi wanted  to live on the earth and complained to Maori,  who   finally   consented   to   his   wish.   When  Mwuetsi was placed on earth he saw it had no  plant life; all was waste and desolate. “See,” said  Maori when Mwuetsi began to cry, “I told you.  Now you are set on a path that will only lead  to death. But I will give you a companion.” So  Maori created Massassi, the first woman and  gave her the gift of fire-making. When Maori  touched the oil in the horn to his finger and  then touched Massassi, she became pregnant  and gave birth to plant life on earth.  In time Massassi had to die. At her death  Mwuetsi was so distraught that Maori created  another woman, Morongo, the evening star, to  replace her. She too was touched with the oil, but  she said he must have intercourse with her. Then  she became pregnant and bore sheep, goats,  cattle, chickens, and children. Maori then told  Mwuetsi that he was going to die and should no  longer have sexual intercourse with Morongo.  But   the   couple   continued   to   sleep   together,  producing lions, leopards, scorpions, and snakes.  One day Mwuetsi tried to force Morongo to have  sexual intercourse with him, but a snake, favored  by Morongo, bit Mwuetsi. As he weakened from  the snake bite, the earth, as well as people and  animals, began to die. When Mwuetsi’s children  learned that only by returning him to the lake  could they be saved, they murdered him and  placed him back in the lake.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla  Mara   In Buddhist mythology, the Evil One  who   attempted   to   destroy   the   Buddha   but  never   succeeded.   He   appears   in   numerous  Buddhist myths and legends. He corresponds  to Satan in the Christian world. Mara assaulted  the contemplative Buddha beneath the Bodhi  Tree. The enticements of Mara’s daughters,  who were skilled in the arts of desire and  640   Man Who Knew How to Cure a Snake Bite, The

=== 페이지 658 ===
voluptuousness, did not affect the Buddha. Also  unheeded were the threats of hideous devils.  When Mara threw his ultimate weapon, a fiery  discus, it turned into a canopy of flowers.  Originally   Mara   was   a   Hindu   demon,  Namuchi, often called Vritra, who constantly  fought against the storm god Indra. He was  a mischievous spirit who prevented rain and  produced drought; his name means “not letting  go the waters.” In many Hindu myths Indra  forces Namuchi to send down fertilizing rains  and restore the earth.  Mara is also called Papiyan (more wicked;  very wicked) and Varshavarti (he who fulfills  desires). In this last version his true nature is  revealed, fulfilling the desire for existence, the  desire for pleasure, and the desire for power.  Mara therefore appears in Buddhist mythol -  ogy as the arch-tempter of the Buddha.   Mara  is also used as a common noun denoting any  hindrance to enlightenment. In Zen, hallucina -  tions are called Makyou (Mara pictures).  See   also:   bodhi tree; indra; namuchi;  satan  Marasta   In Haitian voodoo, a loa (deified  spirit of the dead) who represents twins, who  are considered sacred.  See also:   loa  Marduk   (bull   calf   of   the   sun)   In   Near  Eastern   mythology   (Babylonian),   hero-god  who defeated the monster of chaos, Tiamat,  and was proclaimed king of the gods. Marduk’s  myth is told in the Babylonian creation epic  poem   Enumu Elish   (“When on high   .   .   .”).  Recited at Zag-Muk, the New Year celebra -  tion, the poem was composed between 1200  and 1000   b.c.e.  “When on high .   .   .” is the opening of the  poem, when the sky was not yet named and  “the earth below was nameless.” Only Apsu,  Mara  Marduk   641  Marduk

=== 페이지 659 ===
the abyss, and Tiamat, or chaos, existed. From  their   mingled   waters   came   forth   Mummu,  the “tumult of the waves,” and the monstrous  serpents Lakhmu and Lakhamu. These two  in turn gave birth to Anshar and Kishar, two  primeval gods. Anshar and Kishar then gave  birth to the gods Anu (lofty); Ea, god of sweet  waters, earth, and wisdom; Marduk, the hero  god; the Igigi, a group of gods who took up  their post in the heavens; and the Anunnaki,  another group of gods who took their position  in the underworld.  Shortly, this new creation angered the peace  of Apsu, and he complained to his wife. “Dur -  ing the day I have no rest and I cannot sleep at  night,” he said to Tiamat.  The married couple then argued about what  to do. Their son Ea overheard the argument in  which Apsu planned to destroy his offspring.  Using magic incantations, Ea seized Apsu and  Mummu. Tiamat, angered at this move, gath -  ered a host of gods and gave birth to a group  of monsters to fight Ea. Among the monsters  were   some   “with   sharp   teeth,   merciless   in  slaughter,” terrible dragons, storm monsters,  savage dogs, scorpion men, fish men, and rams.  At the head of her army she appointed Kingu,  another monster.  Ea then went to his father, Anshar, to tell of  Tiamat’s plans to destroy them all. Anshar sent  Anu with a message to Tiamat:  Go and step before Tiamat.  May her liver be pacified, her heart  softened.  Anu obeyed his father, but as soon as he  saw how ugly Tiamat’s face was, he took flight.  Failing with Anu, Anshar then sent his son  Ea, but he was no more courageous. Finally,  Anshar decided to send his son Marduk against  Tiamat:  Marduk heard the word of his father.  His heart rejoiced and to his father he  spoke.  Marduk told his father he was ready to have  a contest with Tiamat and would come out the  victor. He addressed the assembled gods:  When I shall have become your avenger,  Binding Tiamat and saving your life,  Then come in a body,  In Ubshu-kenna [chamber of fate or des -  tiny], let yourselves down joyfully,  My authority instead of yours will assume  control,  Unchangeable shall be whatever I do,  Irrevocable and irresistible, be the com -  mand of my lips.  The gods, in no position to offer resistance,  accepted Marduk’s claim to full authority. Mar -  duk then took his weapon, the thunderbolt,  mounted his chariot drawn by fiery steeds, and  went forth to the enemy camp:  The lord comes nearer with his eye fixed  on Tiamat,  Piercing with his glance Kingu her consort.  Kingu, unable to endure the “majestic halo”  of Marduk, was killed. Then all of the host of  Tiamat left the battlefield except for Tiamat.  “Stand up,” cried Marduk. “I and thou,  come let us fight.”  When Tiamat heard these words of chal -  lenge, she “acted as possessed, her senses left  her,” and she shrieked “wild and loud.” All of  her rage, however, had no effect on Marduk.  The poem describes her undoing:  The lord spread out his net in order to  enclose her.  The destructive wind, which was behind  him, he sent forth into her face.  As Tiamat opened her mouth full wide,  Marduk drove in the destructive wind,  so that she could not close her lips.  The strong winds inflated her stomach.  Her heart lost its reason, she opened her  mouth still wider, gasping for breath.  642   Marduk

=== 페이지 660 ===
He seized the spear and plunged it into  her stomach,  He pierced her entrails, he tore through  her heart,  He seized hold of her and put an end to  her life.  He threw down her carcass and stepped  upon her. (Jastrow translation)  Finished, he then cut her “like one does a  flattened fish into two halves.” From one half  he created a covering for the heavens, from the  other, the earth. From the blood of the mon -  ster Kingu he created the first man.  In the Old Testament Marduk is often called  Bel. Jeremiah (50:2) uses both names when he  writes: “Declare ye among the nations, and  publish, and set up a standard; publish, and  conceal not: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is con -  founded,   Merodach   [Marduk]   is   broken   in  pieces.” In art he is often depicted as a compos -  ite of a snake and a dragon holding a   marrn,   a  hoe shaped instrument.  See also:   anu; apsu; ea; nabur; zag-muk  Margaret, St.   (pearl)   In Christian legend, a  female saint who went in the disguise of a man  for most of her life. Feast, 8 October.  St. Margaret’s life is told in   The Golden  Legend,   written in the 13th century by Jaco -  bus de Voragine. She came of a noble family  who married her off to a noble youth. On the  wedding night, however, she “abstained from  the society of her husband, garbed herself in  the habit of a man,” and fled the house. She  reached a monastery and passed herself off as  Brother Pelagius. She continued in the disguise  for years, eventually being made the overseer  of the nuns. When one of the nuns became  pregnant, Margaret, as Brother Pelagius, was  charged, convicted, and locked in a cave, where  she was fed bread and water. Years passed.  When she was about to die, she wrote a letter  to the monastery telling them the true story of  her life. In a variant legend, Margaret was swal -  lowed by a dragon, but he dislodged her when  she made the sign of a cross, and later she was  beheaded at Antioch in Pisidia.  See also:   dragon;   golden legend, the  Margawse,   Queen   In   Arthurian   legend,  half sister of King Arthur, wife of King Lot,  and mother of Gwain, Gareth, Gaheris, and  Agravaine.   Malory’s   Morte   d’Arthur   makes  her the mother of Mordred by King Arthur.  Margawse was killed by her son Gaheris when  he discovered her with her lover, Sir Lamorok.  Later   Gwain   killed   Lamorok.   Tennyson’s  Idylls of the King   uses the name Bellicent for  Margawse.  See   also:   arthur;   gareth;   gwain;   lot,  king  Margawse, Queen   643  St. Margaret

=== 페이지 661 ===
Marindi   In   Australian   mythology,   a   dog  whose blood turned the rocks red. One day  Marindi was passing by the dry bed of a water  course when he heard a voice saying “Come out  and fight.” It was Adno-artina, the gecko lizard,  who offered the challenge. Marindi agreed to  the fight, but the lizard, seeing Marindi’s huge  teeth, decided the battle should be put off  until the evening, when he would be able to  see better. The lizard tied a string around the  root of his tail to prevent courage from leaving  his body. As they fought, Adno-artina seized  Marindi by the throat. The dog’s blood poured  out and dyed all of the rocks in the creek red.  To this day red ochre, used extensively for  decorative purposes, is obtained from the spot  where the battle took place.  See also:   adno-artina  Marishiten   In   Japanese   Buddhist   mythol -  ogy, goddess of light. She is portrayed in a  martial aspect, mounted on a boar, elephant,  tiger, dragon, or snake. Marishiten has three  faces; two are gentle, and the left one is fierce.  She carries in her eight arms the sun, moon,  spear, a bow and arrow, a sword, and a war fan.  Warriors worship Marishiten because she has  the power to make herself invisible. Sometimes  she is called the queen of heaven.  Marjatta   (Mariatta) (berry)   In the Finnish  epic poem   The Kalevala   (rune 50), virgin moth -  er of a child who becomes king of Karelia and  replaces the culture hero Vainamoinen.  Marjatta, who lived in the Northland, was  a virgin, “always pure and holy.” One day she  asked a cuckoo how long she would remain  unmarried and was answered by a berry, who  told her to “come and pluck” him. The girl  did as she was told and became pregnant. Her  family, thinking her a whore, threw her out of  the house, and the poor girl sought shelter.  She found a stable in a clearing and prayed to  the horse in the stable to blow his warm breath  on her so that she would not freeze to death.  When the horse breathed on her, the whole  stable was filled with steam, and she gave birth  to a boy. While she was sleeping, however, the  child disappeared and was found only with the  aid of the sun, who told her the boy was in the  swampland or a fen. The boy grew up to be  “most beauteous” but had no name. He was  called Floweret by his mother and Sluggard  by strangers. Marjatta wanted to have the boy  baptized, but an old man would not do the  ceremony without the father present. Vain -  amoinen came to investigate the matter and  decided the child should be put to death, but  the child upbraided Vainamoinen. The boy was  then christened and made the king of Karelia,  and the angry Vainamoinen left the land.  The 50th rune, which is the last section of  the epic, displays a good deal of Christian influ -  ence, particularly in the story of the virgin and  her son, and is probably a poetical explanation  of the ending of the pagan gods, symbolized  by Vainamoinen, and the coming of Christian -  ity. For instance, the Jalo Synty, or Suuri Mies  (great birth), referred to in this rune is a title  for Jesus Christ, used by the Greek Orthodox  Karelians, who view Christ’s birth as the birth  par excellence.  See also:   kalevala, the ; vainamoinen  Mark, St.   (from Mars, the Roman god of war)  (First century)   In the Bible, N.T., Evangelist,  author of the Gospel that bears his name. Patron  saint of Venice and of glaziers and notaries.  Invoked by captives. Feast, 25 April.  Mark has been identified as the young man  who ran away when Jesus was arrested in the  garden (Mark 14:51–52) and is believed to be  the same “John surnamed Mark” in the Acts of  the Apostles (12:12).  According to early Christian legend, Mark  preached in Egypt and founded a church at  Alexandria, being the first bishop of the city.  The   pagan   population,   however,   was   angry  at his miracles and accused him of being a  magician. At the feast of the god Serapis the  saint was seized, bound, and dragged along the  streets until he was dead. At the moment the  saint died the police who had arrested him were  killed by a bolt of lightning. The Christians at  644   Marindi

=== 페이지 662 ===
Alexandria buried the mangled remains. Mark’s  tomb then became a great shrine. About 815  some Venetian merchants trading in Alexandria  stole his relics and brought them to Venice,  where they were placed in the church dedicated  to the saint, San Marco. There is a painting by  Tintoretto of the finding of the saint’s body.  The saint has proved popular in Christian  art. When he is represented as one of the four  Evangelists, either singly or grouped with the  others, he is usually accompanied by a lion,  winged or unwinged. Scenes from his legend -  ary life are quite common in Venetian art.  There is a painting by Gentile Bellini, based  on one of the legends, of Mark preaching at  Alexandria.  One day St. Mark saw a poor cobbler, Ania -  nus, who had wounded his hand severely with  his awl. The saint healed the wound, and Ania -  nus was immediately converted to Christianity.  Later, after Mark’s death, Anianus became the  next bishop of Alexandria.  One of the most popular legends, painted  by Giorgione and Paris Bordone, tells how  the saint saved Venice from a flood in 1340 by  appearing with St. George and St. Nicholas  and making the sign of the cross to let the  storm demons flee.  Another episode from the saint’s life tells  how a Christian slave prayed at the shrine of  St. Mark even though he was forbidden to do  so by his master. As a punishment the man was  to be tortured, but St. Mark descended from  heaven and the instruments of torture were  broken or blunted. There is a painting of this  scene by Tintoretto, and a poem,   The Legend  of St. Mark,   by John Greenleaf Whittier. In  English north country villages, people sit in  the church on 24 April from eleven at night  until one in the morning for three years in a  row. In the third year it is said that they can see  the ghosts of those who will die that year come  into the church.  See also:   george, st.; lion; nicholas, st.  Marko, the Gravedigger   In Russian folk -  lore, a monk who restored the dead to life.  Marko was a gravedigger for the Holy Crypt  Monastery during the Middle Ages. One day  he dug a grave that was not very wide. When  the body was brought to the grave, the monks  “began to grumble at Marko, for it was neither  possible to adjust the dead man’s robes nor  to anoint him with holy oil.” Marko told the  monks that he had not felt well when he dug  the grave, but they continued to complain until  Marko addressed the dead man: “Brother, your  grave is so narrow we cannot even anoint you  with holy oil. Take the oil and anoint yourself.”  The dead man rose up slightly, anointed him -  self with the holy oil, and then lay down and  “once   more   died.”   Marko   performed   other  such miracles, and when he died was buried in  a grave he had dug for himself.  Mars   In Roman mythology, god of war, origi -  nally an ancient Italian god who watched over  agriculture; identified by the Romans with the  Greek war god Ares. Mars was the son of Jupiter  Mars   645  St. Mark the Evangelist

=== 페이지 663 ===
and   father   of   Romulus   (Quirinus)   by   Rhea  Silvia. March, the first month of the old Roman  year, was dedicated to Mars as the fertilizing  god of spring. Mars was invoked, along with  the goddess Dea Dia, to bless the fields during  a festival in May. As god of war Mars was called  Gradivus (the strider) because of his rapid march  in battle. His symbols were the wolf, wood -  pecker, and lance. When war broke out, the cry  was   Mars vigila!   (Mars awake!). Numerous sacri -  fices were offered to Mars and warlike exercises,  Equirria, were held in his honor on 27 February,  14 March, and 15 October. On the last day a  horse was sacrificed on his altar in the Campus  Martius (field of Mars), a plain lying to the north  of Rome, outside the Pomerium, between the  Tiber, the Quirinal, and the Capitoline Hills.  The blood of the horse was collected and pre -  served in the temple of Vesta and used at the  Palilia for the purposes of purification. Mar’s  cult had a special priest, the   flamen martialis,   and  a group of Salci (dancers). During Mars’s feast  in March the Salci sang, danced, and beat their  shields   with   staves.   Augustus   honored   Mars  as Mars Vitor (avenger of Caesar) in a temple  erected in 2   b.c.e.  Mars was the patron god of pagan Florence,  later replaced by St. John the Baptist, whose  church is believed to stand on the spot where  Mars’s temple originally stood. Dante’s   Divine  Comedy   (Inferno   13;   Paradise   16)   cites   the  legend that the statue of Mars, hidden in the  Arno tower, had to be restored before Florence  could   be   rebuilt.   Western   paintings   depict -  ing Mars usually portray his love affair with  Venus. Botticelli, Piero di Cosimo, Tintoretto,  Veronese, Poussin, and David have all treated  the subject.  See also:   ares; jupiter; venus; vesta; wolf;  woodpecker  Marsyas   (battler?)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  Phrygian flute player, son of Olympus; some -  times   called   Silenus;   follower   of   the   Great  Mother goddess Cybele. Marsyas, who took  up the flute after it had been discarded by its  creator, Athena, challenged Apollo to a contest  between his flute and Apollo’s lyre. Marsyas  lost, and Apollo bound him to a tree and flayed  him until he died. All of the spirits and dei -  ties of the woods lamented Marsyas’s death,  and   their   tears   became   the   river   Meander.  King Midas, who had taken Marsyas’s side in  the contest, had his ears turned into those of  an ass as punishment. The figure of Marsyas  bound to a tree influenced many portrayals of  the Crucifixion. In Plato’s   Symposium   the great  philosopher Socrates is called a Marsyas and a  Silenus. Plato’s   Republic   mentions the flute as an  instrument that evokes the darker Dionysian,  unruly passions, as opposed to Apollo’s lyre,  which represents harmony. Dante’s invocation  to Apollo in   The Divine Comedy   (Paradise, canto  1) uses the same imagery. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 6) and Matthew Arnold’s   Empedocles on  Etna   deal with the myth. Raphael, Perugino,  Tintoretto, Titian, and Rubens are among the  artists who have treated the subject.  See also:   apollo; athena; great goddess;  midas; ovid  646   Marsyas  Mars

=== 페이지 664 ===
Martha, St.   (lady)   (first century)   In Christian  legend, patron of cooks and housewives. Sister of  Mary of Bethany and of Lazarus, whom Christ  raised from the dead. Feast, 29 July.  Tertullian and other early church fathers  identify Mary of Bethany with Mary Magda -  lene, though this is not accepted by most bibli -  cal scholars today. In Christian art, however,  Tertullian’s interpretation has made its impact.  In   Il Perfetto Legendario   the two sisters are con -  trasted. “Martha was a chaste and prudent Vir -  gin, and the other publicly contemned for her  evil life; notwithstanding which, Martha did  not despise her, nor reject her as a sister, but  wept for her shame, and admonished her gently  and with persuasive words; and reminded her  of her noble birth, to which she was a disgrace,  and that Lazarus, their brother, being a sol -  dier, would certainly get into trouble on her  account. So she prevailed, and conducted her  sister to the presence of Christ.”  In   a   Provençal   legend   Mary   Magdalene  went to preach in Marseilles, while Martha  went to preach in Aix and the surrounding  countryside. There was a fearful dragon, called  the   Tarasque,   which   St.   Martha   overcame  by sprinkling it with holy water and binding  it with her girdle or, in other accounts, her  Martha, St.   647  Jesus, Mary, and Martha   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)

=== 페이지 665 ===
garter. Rubens painted the scene of   Christ in  the House of Martha and Mary,   which portrays  a simple Martha with an apron, while Mary is  richly dressed, listening to Christ’s words. She  is depicted in art holding a bunch of keys and a  ladle or pot of water.  See also:   lazarus; mary magdalene  Martin of Tours, St.   (from Mars, Roman  god of war; Latin variation, Sanctus Martinus;  Italian,   San   Martino)   (fourth   century)   In  Christian   legend,   patron   saint   of   armorers,  beggars,   calvary,   coopers,   domestic   animals,  girdlers, glovers, horses and horsemen, millers,  innkeepers, tailors, wine merchants, and wool  weavers. Invoked against drunkenness, storms,  and ulcers. Feast, 11 November.  Martin was born in the Roman province of  Pannonia (modern-day Hungary) during the  reign of Constantine. His parents were pagan.  He was a tribune in the army and was sent into  Gaul on a campaign. The   Dialogues   of Sulpicius  Severus gives the well-known legend of St.  Martin and the beggar. When he was 18, he  was stationed at Amiens during a very severe  winter. One bitterly cold day a beggar, naked  and shaking, came near his station. Martin, like  all the other soldiers, was in armor, but over his  steel he had a large military cloak. As none of  his companions took notice of the beggar, Mar -  tin cut his cloak into two with his sword and  gave half of it to the beggar. At night Christ  appeared to Martin in a vision. He was dressed  in the parted cloak and asked Martin if he rec -  ognized the garment, adding, “What is done to  the poor in My name is done unto Me.” Martin  then resolved to be baptized. After leaving the  army Martin retired to a religious life and was  made bishop of Tours in 371.  Many other miracles are recorded of him:  he raised a widow’s son to life, restored a slave  of the proconsul from the possession of the  devil, held converse with angels, and quenched  fire by prayer. He is usually pictured on horse -  back, dividing his cloak with a beggar. There  is a well-known painting of this incident by  El Greco in which the saint is portrayed in  16th-century   Spanish   costume   with   a   ruff.  The cathedral in Mainz, Germany, is named  after St. Martin, and a large statue on the roof  depicts the scene with the beggar.  Marunogere   In   Melanesian   mythology,  Kiwai Papuan god and culture hero. He cre -  ated the first pig and coconut tree, built the  first house, and instituted sacred ceremonies.  Two dogs are his companions.  Marusya   A Ukrainian story that resembles  the   Grimmses’   classic   “Brother   and   Sister”  tales. Marusya and her little brother, Vasilko,  are left at home while their parents are away  at a fair. The children are told to stay indoors  because there is a flock of wild geese in the  region that carry off small children. As the  weather is warm, Marusya and Vasilko decide  to sit outside. If they hear the geese they can  quickly run back inside and lock the door.  Vasilko is thirsty and asks for water, and while  Marusya is inside, the geese come and fly away  with the young boy. Marusya pursues them and  comes to a river of honey with banks of   kisel’  (fruit pudding). Marusya asks the river if it has  seen the geese, which it has and will point out  once she had drunk some of the honey and  eaten some of the   kisel’.   The river then points  648   Martin of Tours, St.  St. Martin of Tours splitting his cloak for a beggar

=== 페이지 666 ===
in the direction of a forest where Marusya finds  an apple tree with sour green apples and its  branches crawling with caterpillars. The tree  has also seen the geese, but here, too, Marusya  has to eat some of its sour apples. This she  does, and then she clears away the caterpillars;  only then does the tree tell her which way the  geese went. On the way there she leaves the  forest and comes out onto the steppe, where  she finds an old stove that is covered with rub -  bish as well as a pan full of hard buckwheat  biscuits. The stove agrees to tell her which  way the geese went if she will eat some of the  cold biscuits. She eats the biscuits and cleans  the stove and then learns that the geese are  not too far away. She is to go to the place and  hide in the bushes until the geese are asleep,  and then she creeps into their nest and fetches  her brother. At daybreak the geese see that the  boy is gone and quickly set out to find him.  The two children first come to the stove, and  it tells them to hide inside and then points in  the wrong direction when the geese ask about  the brother and sister. Next the two children  run into the forest and come to the apple tree,  under which they are hidden by the leaves that  the tree shakes down on them. When they  came to the river of honey, they are covered  with   kisel’   and again the geese cannot find  them. The two children thank the river and  run home and into the house just as the geese  arrive. Their parents come home that evening,  see the circling geese, and listen to the stories  the children have to tell. The next morning the  family is awakened by carts laden with sweet  biscuits, ripe apples, pots of honey, and   kisel’.  They feast on the plentiful food and are never  again bothered by the geese.  Maruts   (flashing)   In   Hindu   mythology,  wind gods who form part of the entourage  of Indra, the storm god, or of Rudra (another  name for Shiva). Their number varies in differ -  ent texts, the seven major ones being Vayuvega  (wind speed), Vayubala (wind force), Vayuha  (wind destroyer), Vayumandala (wind circle),  Vayujvala (wind flame), Vayuretas (wind seed),  and Vayucakra (wind disk). Maruts are also  called Rudras.  See also:   indra; rudras; shiva  Marwe   In an African folktale told by the  Chaga of Tanzania, Marwe and her brother  were instructed to keep the jungle monkeys  from eating the family’s beans. After keeping  a long watch they grew thirsty and went off to  a distant pool to find water. Marwe threw her -  self into the pool when she learned that in her  absence the monkeys had eaten all of the beans.  She preferred to die rather than face the anger  of her parents. When she reached the bottom  of the pool, she met an old woman who permit -  ted Marwe to live with her.  In time Marwe became homesick and was  given the opportunity to return to her parents.  First, however, she was asked to choose between  hot and cold. Marwe, not knowing what the  choice involved, chose cold. She was startled to  find her arms and legs covered with expensive  bangles. When Marwe appeared by the side of  the pool, all of the young men wanted to marry  her. She chose Sawoye, whose skin had many  blemishes. Soon, however, his skin cleared, and  he became a very handsome mate. Marwe and  Sawoye prospered, but jealous neighbors killed  him. Marwe, however, was able to bring him  back to life and hid him in their home. As the  neighbors advanced on the home in an effort to  take her riches from Marwe, Sawoye suddenly  appeared and killed them.  Mary Magdalene, St.   (rebellion? wished-for  child?)   (first century)   In the Bible, N.T., pen -  itent woman. Western art, following Christian  legend, makes no distinction between Mary, the  sister of Martha and Lazarus, Mary Magdalene,  and the “woman which was a sinner,” though  they appear to have been historically three dis -  tinct persons. Feast, 22 July.  In the New Testament Mary Magdalene  was a follower of Christ and “ministered” to  him. She had been possessed by seven devils,  Mary Magdalene, St.   649

=== 페이지 667 ===
650   Mary Magdalene, St.  St. Mary Magdalene in prayer

=== 페이지 668 ===
which Christ drove from her. Her courage is  illustrated by the fact that she was at the foot  of the cross with Mary, the mother of Jesus, and  John, whereas the other disciples fled. Mary  was also the first one to see the risen Christ,  according   to   the   account   in   John’s   Gospel  (20:11–17). This episode is called in Latin the  Noli me tangere   (touch me not). It is frequently  found in medieval and later Christian art. The  New Testament tells us nothing of the later life  of the saint, though medieval Christian legend  has supplied much. According to legend, Mary  Magdalene and her brother Lazarus and sister  Martha, accompanied by Maximin and Mar -  cella (later sainted), set out in a ship without  sail or oar and came to Marseilles. Here they  converted the people, with Lazarus becoming  the first bishop of Marseilles.  Despite Mary Magdalene’s reformation, the  sinful aspect of her life has appealed to both  poets and artists, who often portray her as a  penitent. Richard Crashaw, the 17th-century  English poet, in his   Carmen Deo Nostro,   has  a poem,   St. Mary Magdalene or the Weeper,   in  which numerous lines are expended on the  profusion of tears the saint shed over her sin -  ful life. In paintings St. Mary Magdalene is  usually portrayed as a beautiful woman with  long fair hair. She has near her a box of oint -  ment, referring to the spices to anoint the dead  Jesus. Sometimes, however, she is portrayed  as a wasted woman. When she is shown in the  desert, praying or reading, the emblems of  penance, such as a skull or bones, are nearby.  Titian, the great painter of the Italian Renais -  sance, painted her in this manner.  See also:   lazarus; martha, st.  Mary of Egypt, St.   (rebellion? wished-for  child?)   (fourth century)   In Christian legend,  prostitute who became a saint. Feast, 2 April.  St. Jerome wrote that in Alexandria there  was a woman “whose name was Mary, and who  in the infamy of her life far exceeded Mary  Magdalene.” After having passed 17 years in  “every species of vice,” one day she spotted  a ship that was ready to sail to Jerusalem “to  celebrate the feast of the true cross.” She was  “seized with a sudden desire to accompany  them” but had no money, so she paid her way  with “every means in her power.” When they  arrived at Jerusalem, all of the worshippers  entered the church except for Mary, whose  “attempts to pass the threshold were in vain,”  for a supernatural power drove “her back in  shame, in terror, in despair.” Convinced that  she should mend her ways, she prayed and  renounced her wicked life. She bought three  loaves of bread and “wandered forth into the  solitude” until she had reached the desert. She  lived in the Syrian desert as a female hermit.  She   was   finally   discovered   by   St.   Zosimus  after 47 years. He was asked to bring the Holy  Communion to the saint at the end of the year.  When he returned, he was not able to pass over  the Jordan, but Mary, “supernaturally assisted,”  passed over the water and received the Holy  Communion. St. Zosimus was to return the  next year to give her Communion, but when he  arrived he found she had died. He buried her  body with the assistance of a lion who helped  him dig the grave.  St. Mary of Egypt, though sometimes con -  fused with St. Mary Magdalene, is frequently  shown in art as a wasted woman, stripped of her  clothes, her long hair covering her body, with  three loaves of bread. She is thus portrayed in  Quentin Massys’s painting   St. Mary of Egypt,   as  well as in a painting by Emil Nolde.  See also:   jerome, st.; mary magdalene  Masewi and Oyoyewi   (Masewa and Uyuy-  ewa)   In North American Indian mythology  (Acoma), twin war spirits who were sent by  their mother to place the sun in the sky in its  correct position and to assign clans to the peo -  ple. They were credited with killing monsters  and releasing the rains.  Masnavi,   The   (Mathnawi,   Mathnwi-i-  Ma’nawi, Mesnevi)   (couplets)   Persian mys -  tical poem in 27,000 couplets, divided into six  Masnavi, The   651

=== 페이지 669 ===
books, written in the 13th century by Rumi, a  Sufi mystic. It embodies fables, folklore, leg -  ends from the Koran, and religious and moral  teaching.  The Masnavi   is considered Rumi’s major work,  being one of the most important documents of the  Sufis, a mystic order related to Islam that employs  the language of the senses to express longing for  reunion with God. Rumi’s text is an attempt to  explain the doctrines of Sufism in popular form.  Though the Persian poet Omar Khayyam is  better known among Westerners because of the  19th-century translation by Edward Fitzgerald,  Fitzgerald’s teacher, the Reverend Edward B.  Cowell, hated the doubting Omar Khayyam but  loved   The Masnavi   as one of the most brilliant  religious poems in the world.  See also:   koran, the  mason wasp   One of the most common of  African insects, the mason wasp builds its mud  nest on almost any type of object. It often cre -  ates a nest near a fireplace and for that reason is  commonly credited in mythology with having  brought fire to earth. According to the Ila peo -  ple of Zambia, the mason wasp volunteered to  go to heaven, along with three birds, to ask God  for fire so that all of the birds and insects of the  world could keep warm during winter. Each of  the three birds died en route to heaven, leaving  only the mason wasp to petition God for fire.  God pitied him and decided to grant his wish.  He made him chief of all birds and insects and  told him to build his nests near fireplaces.  Mass   In Christianity, common name for the  central act of worship, also called the Holy  Eucharist, the Liturgy, the Lord’s Supper, and  Holy Communion. Based on Jewish and pagan  rituals, the Mass uses bread, which is basic  to the human diet, and wine, which is associ -  ated with vitality and fellowship, for commu -  nion with Christ, the risen Lord. The earliest  account of the ritual is found in St. Paul’s first  letter to the Corinthians (I Cor. 11:2–26, New  Jerusalem Bible):  For the tradition I received from the Lord  and also handed on to you is that on the  night he was betrayed, the Lord Jesus took  some bread, and after he had given thanks,  he broke it, and he said, “This is my body,  which is for you; do this in remembrance  of me.” And in the same way, with the  cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the  new covenant in my blood. Whenever you  drink it, do this as a memorial of me.”  For centuries Christians have debated the  meaning of the words, sometimes killing one  another over their disagreements. Some Chris -  tians, such as Roman Catholics, believe that the  bread and wine literally become the body and  blood of Christ, calling it transubstantiation;  Anglicans believe in the real presence, though  they do not define it; Lutherans believe in con -  substantiation—the bread and wine exist along  with the body and blood of Christ; and still  other Christians hold that the rite is merely  symbolic and that the bread and wine remain  bread and wine. The ancient mystery cults that  existed at the time of the birth of Christian -  ity also had communion meals in which bread  and wine were part of the ritual. Worship of  Orpheus, Osiris, Mithra, Attis, and Dionysus  each had a ritual meal as part of the cult.  The Latin Mass, which was fixed by the  Council of Trent in the 16th century, broke  down as follows: the Ordinary, with unchang -  ing text, and the Proper, with a changing text,  depending on whether the Mass was for a spe -  cial feast day or a saint’s day or was a Requiem  Mass for the dead. Settings of the musical sec -  tion of the Mass usually were  Kyrie (Lord, have mercy)  Gloria (Glory to God in the highest)  Credo (The Nicene Creed, beginning “I believe  in One God”)  Sanctus and Benedictus (Holy, Holy, Holy)  Agnus Dei (Lamb of God)  652   mason wasp

=== 페이지 670 ===
The Mass text has been set by many composers,  among them Guillaume de Machaut, Dufay,  Ockeghem, Obrecht, Josquin Des Prés, Byrd,  Tallis, Palestrina, J. S. Bach, Haydn, Mozart,  Beethoven, Cherubini, Schubert, Liszt, Bruck -  ner, Franck, Gounod, Verdi, Villa-Lobos, Pou -  lenc,   Stravinsky,   and   Vaughan   Williams.   A  setting of the Russian liturgy was composed by  Tchaikovsky.  See   also:   mithras;   dionysus;   orpheus;  osiris; paul, st.  Master Drink of Rothenburg, The   In  the   little   Franconian   town   of   Rothenburg,  which still looks like a medieval city, the fol -  lowing is said to have taken place. During the  Thirty Years’ War Rothenburg was conquered  by the enemy after a long battle. The citizens  of the city were required to offer the enemy  general some wine as a welcoming drink. Then  it was supposed to be completely destroyed,  and everyone was to be put to death.  When the enemy general took the gigantic  mug of wine in his hands, he said: “If there is any  man in this city who can drink this entire mug  of wine, I will grant you life and will not destroy  your city.” It seemed to him impossible that  anyone could drink so much at one time. Nev -  ertheless, the old mayor of Rothenburg stepped  forward and took the mug. He drank and drank  and drained the mug all the way to the bottom,  thus saving the city and its citizens. One can still  see the mug in Rothenburg today.  Masterson, Bat   (1855–1921)   In American  history and folklore, William Barclay Masterson  was a sheriff noted for his fine suits, pearl-gray  bowler, diamond stickpin, and notched gun. In  1875, Bat killed his first man at Sweetwater,  Texas. The incident occurred over a woman  named Molly Brennan. Bat and Molly were  both wounded by the gunfire of her jealous ex-  lover, Melvin A. King, before Bat killed him.  After Bat recuperated, he returned to Dodge  City, where he worked as a deputy marshal  under Wyatt Earp. Once a man pestered Bat  to sell him his gun as a souvenir. Not wishing  to part with his gun, Bat went out and pur -  chased a Colt .45 to sell to the gentleman. To  make the gun even more interesting he put 22  notches on it. When the collector called for  his souvenir, Bat handed him the notched gun.  Stunned, the man asked him if he had killed  22 men. According to legend, Bat replied: “I  didn’t tell him yes, and I didn’t tell him no,  and I didn’t exactly lie to him. I simply said I  hadn’t counted either Mexicans or Indians, and  he went away tickled to death.” Bat Masterson  appeared as the subject of a television series.  Mater Matuta   (Mother Dawn)   In Roman  mythology, goddess of sea travel, originally an  early Italian goddess of birth, dawn (often iden -  tified with Aurora), harbors, and the sea, and  as such identified with the Greek Leucothea.  Her festival, Matralia (festival of mothers), was  celebrated on 11 June.  Mati-Syra-Zemlya   (moist   Mother   Earth)  In Russian mythology, earth goddess. The wor -  ship of Mati-Syra-Zemlya continued in Russia  up to the eve of World War I, when peasants  invoked her protection against the spread of  cholera.  At midnight the old women of the village  would gather, summoning one another without  the knowledge of the men. Nine virgins would  be chosen to go with the old women to the  village outskirts. There they would all undress  down to their shifts. The virgins would let  down their hair, and the widows would cover  their heads with white shawls. A widow would  then be hitched to a plow, which was driven by  another widow. The nine virgins would take  up scythes, and the other women took up such  objects as the skulls of animals. They would all  march around the village, howling and scream -  ing as they plowed a furrow to allow the spirits  of Mati-Syra-Zemlya to emerge and destroy all  evil spirits, such as the cholera. If a man hap -  pened to see this ceremony, he would be seized  and killed.  Mati-Syra-Zemlya   653

=== 페이지 671 ===
Some Russian peasants would listen to Mati-  Syra-Zemlya by digging the earth with a stick  or their fingers. If the digging sounded like a  well-stocked sleigh moving over the snow, it  meant crops would be good. If it sounded like  an empty sleigh, the crops would be bad. In the  spring bread was buried for her to eat, and beer  or wine for her to drink.  Igor Stravinsky’s ballet   Le Sacre du printemps  ( The Rite of Spring ), deals with the worship of  Mother Earth in pagan Russia. The ballet’s  subtitle is   Pictures of Pagan Russia.   The work was  first performed by Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes in  Paris with choreography by Vaslav Nijinsky,  who Stravinsky thought completely misunder -  stood the ballet. The sets and costumes were  by Nicholas Roerich, who was also responsible,  with Stravinsky, for the scenario of the ballet.  At the ballet’s first performance there was a  near riot between those who accepted the mod -  ern effects of the score and those who violently  protested, saying the work violated all known  principles of music. Today   Le Sacre du printemps  is recognized as one of the greatest innovations  in 20th-century music.  See also:   mikula  Matowelia   In   North   American   Indian  mythology (Mojave), culture hero who led the  Mojave Indians from the White Mountain to  their home along the Colorado River. At death  the spirits of the Indians would return to the  White Mountains. If they were not ritually  burned, they would become screech owls.  Matronalia   In   Roman   cult,   festivals   in  honor of Mars and Juno, celebrated by mar -  ried women in commemoration of the rape of  the Sabines and of the peace that later ensued.  Flowers were offered in the temple of Juno,  who was also called Matrona because she pre -  sided over marriage and childbirth.  See also:   juno; mars  Ma Tsu P’o   In Chinese Taoist mythology,  Queen of Heaven and Holy Mother, invoked  by sailors to grant good weather and safe sail -  ing. Jesuit missionaries compared Ma Tsu P’o  to the Virgin Mary.  See also:   virgin mary  Matthew, St.   (gift of Yahweh)   (first century)  In the Bible, N.T., Evangelist and Apostle.  Author   of   the   Gospel   bearing   his   name.  Patron of bankers and tax collectors. Feast, 21  September.  Little is known of his life. The gospels give  only the account of his calling by Jesus (Mark  2:14). It is a widely accepted theory that Levi  and Matthew are the same person. Jesus is  believed to have given Levi the name Matthew.  There are two different traditions of the death  of St. Matthew. According to Greek legend, he  died during the reign of Domitian, but accord -  ing to Western legend, he was martyred in  Ethiopia by either a sword or a spear. In art,  aside from his symbol as an angel with a book  in his role as Evangelist, he is often portrayed  654   Matowelia  Ma Tsu P’o

=== 페이지 672 ===
at the moment he answered Christ’s call, as in  Caravaggio’s painting.  Mátyás   (1440–1490)   In Hungarian legend,  a king noted for his just rule. He became  popular among the peasants during his lifetime  for   his   humane   measures   in   alleviating   the  hard life of the serfs. Shortly after his death  Mátyás became the subject of numerous leg -  ends in the manner of King Arthur or King  Solomon. Up to the beginning of the 20th  century Hungarian peasants believed that King  Mátyás would reappear again and their lives  would then be better. The belief is similar to  the English belief that King Arthur will return  in a dark time and restore justice, and the  German belief about Barbarossa. A well-known  Hungarian proverb is “King Mátyás is dead;  justice has passed with him.”  See also:   arthur; barbarossa; solomon  Maui   (Mowee)   In   Polynesian   mythology,  great trickster and culture hero who snared the  sun and brought fire to mankind but died while  attempting to give man immortality.  Maui’s father was Tama, the sky, and his  mother was Taranga, who gave birth to him  prematurely. When he was born, she wrapped  him in a tuft of her hair and cast him into the  surf, but a jellyfish surrounded the body of the  young child, protecting him from any harm.  Tama saw the object floating in the ocean and  came down to investigate. When he removed  the jellyfish he found the baby and took him  to his home in the sky, placing the boy on the  roof of his house so that he would be warmed  by the fire inside. After a short time Maui  became restless and decided to go to earth to  see his mother and brothers. He entered the  assembly hall while his family was attending a  dance. Sitting behind his brothers, he waited  for his mother, Taranga, to come and count her  sons. When she reached Maui, she said he was  not one of her children. But when the lad told  her his story, she was convinced and said, “You  are indeed my last born son.” She brought  him home and let him sleep in her bed, which  annoyed his brothers.  When Maui’s father, Tama, saw his son, he  was pleased and decided to perform a naming  ceremony, which would make Maui sacred and  would cleanse all impurities. After the cer -  emony it was discovered that some prayers had  been omitted and that the gods would punish  Maui because of the omission.  Maui is credited with setting the length of the  day. Annoyed with the shortness of the day, Maui  persuaded his brothers that they should capture  the sun in a net and force him to slow down.  His brothers at first objected to his plan but  later agreed. They made a noose, and Maui took  his magic jawbone that he had procured from  his   grandmother   Muri-ranga-whenuam.   The  brothers then traveled all night to the desert  where the sun rises and hid themselves. Maui  made a large circle with a length of rope.  Maui said to his brothers, “Keep yourselves  hidden, and do not show yourselves to the sun;  if you do, you will frighten him. Wait patiently  until his head and forelegs are well into the  snare, then I will shout. You haul away as hard  as you can on both ends of the rope, and I will  rush out and beat him until he is nearly dead.  And, my brothers, do not let him move you to  pity with his shrieks and screams.”  When the sun was caught, Maui beat him  until he began to move at a slower pace, thus  setting the length of the day.  Maui also captured fire for humankind. He  went to the underworld and asked Mahu’ike  for some fire with which to cook. She (in some  accounts a male) gave him one of her finger -  nails, which contained fire. He later returned  to her and said the fire had gone out, and he  needed another fingernail, which she gave him.  This went on until the goddess was left with  only one toenail, and she then realized what  Maui was up to. She threw her last toenail  to the ground, and it immediately burst into  flame. Maui then transformed himself into an  eagle in order to escape, but his wings were  singed. Mahu’ike saved some of the flames by  Maui   655

=== 페이지 673 ===
throwing them into the treetops. To this day  men make fire by rubbing two sticks together.  Maui next tried to obtain immortality. He  set off with some birds to find Hina-nui-te-po  (great goddess of the night), the goddess who  ruled the dead. When he arrived in the under -  world, he found her asleep.  “My little friends,” he said to the birds,  “when you see me enter the body of this old  chieftainess, be careful not to laugh. If you do,  she will awaken and kill me. But when you see  me coming out of her mouth, you can laugh,  and I will live and Hine-nui-te-po will die.”  Maui took off his clothes and entered the  goddess through her vagina. When the birds  saw his feet sticking out of the goddess’s vagina,  they almost burst into laughter. One wagtail  could not contain himself and let out a laugh,  which   awoke   Hine-nui-te-po,   who   crushed  Maui inside herself. So Maui failed to achieve  immortality for humankind.  To this day the Maori recite this proverb:  “Men make heirs, but death carries them off.”  This   account   of   Maui   is   based   on   Sir  George Grey’s   Polynesian Mythology.   Maui is  also known as Amorshashiki, Ma-tshikt-shiki,  Mosigsig, and Motikitik.  See also:   sun snarer; trickster  Maundy Thursday   In Christian ritual, the  Thursday of Holy Week before Good Friday,  sometimes called Holy Thursday, Shere, or  Chare. The main rite during the day is the  washing of the feet of the poor by a priest, based  on the command in John’s Gospel (13:34), in  which Jesus said, “A new commandment I give  unto you, love one another as I have loved you.”  With these words Jesus washed the feet of his  disciples. During the Middle Ages it was the  custom for a bishop or priest to wash the feet of  12 beggars or a group of pilgrims. St. Oswald,  archbishop of York (972–992) instructed his  clergy to feed 12 poor men and wash their feet  every day. English kings also would follow the  sacred rite. St. Thomas More tells how King  Henry VIII washed the feet of the poor and  gave them food and money. Queen Elizabeth  I also washed the feet of a pauper, but she first  had them washed in herb-scented water by her  servants before she performed the rite. The  rite of washing the feet is still observed in the  Roman and Anglican churches, and by some  Anabaptists, but was discontinued by Luther,  who denounced it. In 1718, 12 Lutherans were  forced to do public penance for having a duke  wash their feet. (The name Maundy is believed  to derive from the Latin translation of Jesus’  command,   Mandatum novum de vobis. )  See also:   oswald, st.; thomas, st.  Maurice   and   the   Theban   Legion,   St.  (Moorish,   dark-skinned)   (Died   286)   In  Christian legend, Roman captain of the Theban  Legion. Patron of armies, armorers, infantry,  hatters, and knife grinders. Invoked against  demonic possession, enemies of religion, and  gout. Venerated at St. Maurice-en-Valois, St.  Moritz, and Zofingen. One of the patron saints  of Austria. Feast, 22 September.  Among the legions that made up the Roman  army at the time of Diocletian and Maximin  was one called the Theban Legion because it  originated in Thebald. All of the 6,666 soldiers  were Christians, and their leader was Maurice,  or Mauritius. About the year 286 Maximin  summoned the legion from the East to rein -  force the army about to march into Gaul. After  the passage through the Alps, some of the  army was sent on to the Rhine while the rest  remained on the banks of Lake Geneva, where  Emperor Maximin ordered sacrifices to pagan  gods, accompanied by games and ceremonies.  Maurice and the Christian soldiers retired some  three leagues away and made camp at Aganum,  now   Saint-Maurice.   In   the   account   of   The  Golden Legend,   when Maximin heard of this,  .   .   . he sent knights to them, and com -  manded   that   they   should   come   hast -  ily unto the sacrifices of the gods.   .   .   . and  they answered that they might not so do  because they held the faith of Jesu Christ.  656   Maundy Thursday

=== 페이지 674 ===
And then the emperor .   .   . said: “The injury  celestial is meddled with my despite, and  the religion Roman is despised with me.  Now shall each contumacious knight feel  not only for me, but to avenge my gods.”  Then Caesar commanded his knights that  they should go and constrain them to do  sacrifice to the gods, or else they should  slay always the tenth man. Then the holy  saints stretched tofore that other to come  to the death. And after, S. Maurice arose up  and said to his fellows among other things:  “Enjoy ye with us, and I thank you, for we  be all ready for to die for the faith of Jesu  Christ.” .   .   . And when the emperor heard  that, he commanded to behead yet the  tenth man of them. (Caxton translation)  Some of the Theban Legion were trampled  down by the cavalry, some hung on trees and  shot with arrows, some killed by the sword.  Maurice and some of his officers knelt down  and were beheaded.  St. Maurice is usually shown in complete  armor; he bears in one hand a standard, in the  other a palm. Southern European art often  shows him dressed as a Roman soldier, as in  El Greco’s painting of the saint. German art  shows him as a Moorish knight, as in Hans  Baldung Grien’s painting.  Mauvais   In Haitian voodoo, an evil man or  woman who uses the evil eye against a person,  often causing death.  Mawu Lisa   In African mythology (Fon of  Benin), bisexual god—part male, part female—  who became the source of all other gods. Each  pair of their children (for all were born as sets  of twins) was given an area to rule. Lisa, the  male twin, is associated with the sun; Mawu,  his   female   counterpart,   is   the   moon.   The  first pair was given the earth to rule, and the  other six were assigned the sea, weather, hunt,  human life span, and similar things to control.  Mawu, as the moon, is more inclined to soft -  ness, whereas Lisa is forceful and unrelenting.  Mawu is the older of the two and is regarded  as the embodiment of wisdom; Lisa is the per -  sonification of physical strength. Da, the son of  the divine pair, assists in ordering the cosmos.  At times Mawu is referred to as the Supreme  Being without any reference being made to  Lisa.   Some   accounts   say   Nana   Buluka,   an  androgynous deity, existed before Mawu Lisa  and created the god.  See also:   avonawilona; da; yin and yang  Maya   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist leg -  end, mother of the Buddha. She led a pure life,  entitling her to be the mother of the coming  Buddha. Maya had a dream in which the future  Buddha appeared to her as a white elephant  and entered her right side. The dream is fre -  quently portrayed in Buddhist art.  See also:   buddha, the  Maya   (the maker)   In Hindu mythology, the  architect of the demons. In the epic poem   The  Mahabharata   he built a palace for the Pandavas.  Maya   is also the word used to mean the cre -  ated world as experienced independently by  its creator and often is mistakenly translated as  “illusion.”  See also:   mahabharata, the  Mayan   Letter   Gods   System of identify -  ing Mayan deities found in Indian codices, or  manuscripts. To make it easier to distinguish  these nameless gods, the scholar Paul Schellhas  published   Representation of Deities of the Maya  Manuscripts   (1904), in which he assigned letters  A   through   P   (omitting   J ) to the gods encoun -  tered in the manuscripts. They are as follows:  God A.   God of death, often identified with Ah  Puch, depicted with bells, crossbones, and  an owl. He is often portrayed as a skull.  God B.   God of rain and thunder, identified with  Chac or Kukulcán, portrayed with a long  truncated nose and tusks.  Mayan Letter Gods   657

=== 페이지 675 ===
God C.   God of the North Star, often identified  with Xaman Ek (the Venus star), portrayed  surrounded by planetary signs.  God D.   God of the moon and night sky, often  identified with Kukulcán or Itzamná, usu -  ally portrayed as an aged man with sunken  cheeks, wearing a serpent headdress.  God E.   God of corn, often identified with Yum  Kaxx, portrayed wearing a leaf of corn as  part of his headdress.  God F.   God of war and death, often identified  with Xipe, the flayed god, portrayed with  black lines on his face and body, perhaps  signifying death wounds.  God G.   God of the sun, Kukulcán in his sun god  role, sometimes having a symbol of death  nearby because he needed human blood to  sustain himself.  God H.   Unknown god on whose forehead the  scale or skin spot of a serpent appears, per -  haps Kukulcan in his serpent aspect.  Goddess I.   Goddess of water, often identified  with Ixchel, sometimes portrayed wearing a  knotted serpent on her head and holding in  one hand a vessel from which water is pour -  ing. She is a personification of water in its  destructive aspect and is sometimes shown  with crossbones, symbols of death.  God K.   God of the wind, perhaps Itzamná,  related to God B and called by Schellhas the  “god of the ornamental nose.”  God L.   Called the Old Black God by Schellhas  because he is portrayed with aged features  and toothless gums. One half of his face,  sometimes the upper half and other times  the lower half, is painted black.  God M.   God of traveling merchants, sometimes  identified with the god Ex Chauah.  God N.   The God of the End of the Year, accord -  ing to Schellhas, portrayed with the head of  an old man and wearing a headdress that  includes the sign for the year of 360 days.  Goddess O.   Goddess of feminine old age; she  appears in only one manuscript, as an old  woman with a single tooth in her lower  jaw.  God P.   The Frog God, according to Schellhas,  portrayed with the webbing of a frog and a  blue background symbolizing water.  See also:   ah puch; chac; itzamaná; ixchel;  xaman ek  Mayauel   In   Aztec   mythology,   goddess   of  pulque, the intoxicating drink made from the  fermented sap of the agave, and hallucinogens.  She is not to be confused with Mayahuel, the  wife of Ehecatl. Mayauel was the wife of a  farmer. One day she chased a mouse away from  the maguey (agave) plantation. She found that  the mouse had eaten the heart from one of the  plants and had drunk its juice. As a result the  mouse swayed unsteadily and was in fact drunk.  Mayauel and her husband put some of the juice  from the plant in a gourd and left it while they  went to work in the fields. When they returned,  they took a drink. They soon swayed unsteadily  and became drunk. The gods, not wanting to  miss out on such a discovery, took the spirit of  Mayauel and made her into a goddess. In some  accounts the pulque god is called Ometochtli  (two rabbits). He was killed by Texcatlipoca,  the Aztec creator-trickster god.  See also:   ehecatl  Mazeppa,   Ivan   (1644–1709)   In Slavic his -  tory and legend, Cossack hero and leader. Born  of a noble family, Mazeppa became a page at the  court of the Polish king. He had an affair with the  young wife of a nobleman and as a punishment  was tied naked to a wild horse, which was then  turned loose. Mazeppa was saved by Cossacks  and in time became a hetman, or leader, and  prince of the Ukraine under Peter the Great  of Russia. Later, however, Mazeppa betrayed  Russia to Charles XII of Sweden, when the  king invaded the Ukraine. He appears in Lord  Byron’s poem   Mazeppa,   Pushkin’s poem   Poltava,  and Tchaikovsky’s opera   Mazeppa.   Victor Hugo’s  poem   Mazepla   tells of the hero’s ride while tied  to the wild horse; Liszt’s tone poem   Mazeppa   and  Delacroix’s painting deal with the same subject.  658   Mayauel

=== 페이지 676 ===
Médard   of   Noyon,   St.   (Died   545)   In  Christian   legend,   patron   saint   of   brewers,  peasants, and prisoners. Invoked on behalf of  idiots and lunatics; also for fruitfulness, both in  childbearing and the fields, for rains and vine -  yards, and against bad weather and toothache.  Feast, 8 June.  Once a sudden shower fell, wetting everyone  in the town except St. Médard, who remained  perfectly dry, for an eagle had spread its wings  over him. Ever after he was called   maître de la  pluie   (master of the rain), and it was believed  that if it rained on Médard’s feast day, it would  rain for 40 days thereafter. Médard founded  the Rose Festival at Salency in which the most  virtuous girl in the parish received a crown of  roses and a purse of money. De Maupassant’s  tale “Le Rosier de Madame Husson,” which  Benjamin Britten used as the basis for his opera  Albert Herring,   describes the festival.  Medea   (cunning)   In Greek mythology, great  sorceress and enchantress, daughter of Aëetes,  king of Colchis, and Eidyia; sister of Absyrtus  and half-sister of Chalciope; wife of the hero  Jason.   To   assist   Jason   in   his   quest   for   the  Golden Fleece, the goddess Aphrodite caused  Medea to fall in love with the handsome hero.  Medea aided Jason through her skill in magic  and witchcraft. She was a priestess of Hecate,  goddess of night and witchcraft, according to  some accounts. Medea so loved Jason that she  killed her brother Absyrtus when he pursued  her as the couple fled. When Medea and Jason  arrived at Iolcos, Medea rejuvenated Jason’s  father Aeson by boiling him with a mixture of  magical herbs in a vat. Then, in an evil plan,  she encouraged the daughters of Aeson’s broth -  er Pelias to do the same for their father. The  girls eagerly did as told, and the old man was  boiled to death. Again the couple fled, this time  to Corinth. Here Jason grew tired of Medea  and decided to marry Glauce (or Creusa), the  king’s daughter. Medea destroyed the girl with  a poisoned robe and diadem, which caught fire  when Glauce put them on. When Glauce’s  father attempted to save his daughter, he too  was destroyed. Not yet satisfied, Medea fur -  ther punished Jason for his betrayal of her by  killing their two sons, Mermerus and Pheres.  Leaving Jason desolate, Medea   Medea   then fled  to Athens in a chariot drawn by two dragons.  She married Aegeus, king of the city, but later  became jealous of his son Theseus and had to  flee again. Eventually, she returned to Colchis,  where she was believed to be immortal.  Medea appears in Euripides’   Medea   and the  modern English version by the American poet  Robinson Jeffers; Seneca’s   Medea ; Ovid’s   Heroi -  des   (12) and   Metamorphoses   (book 7); Apollonius  Medea   659  Medea

=== 페이지 677 ===
Rhodius’s short epic poem   Argonautica   (Voy -  age of the Argo); Gower’s   Confessio amantis ;  Chaucer’s   Legend of Good Women ; Corneille’s  Médée ; Cherubini’s opera   Medea ; Jean Anouilh’s  Médée ; Pasolini’s film   Medea,   with Maria Callas,  who also sang the role in Cherubini’s opera;  Delacroix’s painting   Medea,   which portrays her  about to kill her children; and Samuel Barber’s  Medea’s Meditation and Dance of Vengeance   in the  ballet “Cave of the Heart” with choreography  by Martha Graham.  See also:   aegeus; aphrodite; golden fleece;  hecate; jason; mermerus and pheres; ovid  Mehen   In Egyptian mythology, a great ser -  pent. Mehen surrounds the sun god in his  boat to protect him from the monster serpent  Apophis. The sun god is portrayed as a ram-  headed deity in his role of crossing the heavens  at night. He usually wears a solar disk. Around  the sun god in this form is a cabin, and Mehen  is often portrayed coiling around the cabin as a  sign of protection.  See also:   apophis; snake  Melchizedek   (king of righteousness)   In the  Bible, O.T., king and high priest of Salem.  Abraham   met   Melchizedek   when   Abraham  was returning from rescuing Lot. Melchizedek  blessed Abraham and gave him food and wine  (Gen. 14:18). In medieval Christian symbol -  ism, based on the Epistle to the Hebrews (5:6)  in the New Testament, Melchizedek is seen as  a prefiguration of Christ because his offering  of food and wine seemed to echo the Christian  Eucharist.  See also:   abraham  Meleager   (guinea fowl)   In Greek mythol -  ogy,   a   hero,   an   Argonaut   son   of   Ares   or  Oeneus and Althaea; brother or half brother  of Deianeiras, Gorge, and Toxeus; husband of  Cleopatra, daughter of Idas; father of Polydora.  He was one of the members of the Calydonian  boar hunt. In Homer’s   Iliad   (book 9) Meleager  is cited as a hero who long defended his city and  was killed during the Calydonian boar hunt. In  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 8) Meleager’s life is  snuffed out by his mother. She had been told  by the Fates at his birth that as long as a fire -  brand then in the fireplace did not burn down,  Meleager would live. Althaea removed the log  and stored it in a chest. When she discovered  that Meleager had killed her brothers after the  Calydonian boar hunt, she took out the log and  cast it into the flames, causing his death. The  best-known treatment of the myth in English  literature is Swinburne’s poetic drama   Atalanta  in Calydon.  See also:   area; argonauts; calydonian  boar hunt;   iliad, the ; meleager; ovid  Melisenda   In   medieval   Spanish   legends,  daughter   of   Charlemagne   and   the   wife   of  Gayferos. She was captured by the Moors and  held prisoner for seven years. Eventually, she  was freed by her husband. Cervantes’s   Don  Quixote   (part 2) has the tale acted out by pup -  pets before the Don. This section of the novel  was used by Manuel de Falla for his opera   El  retablo de maese Pedro.  See also:   charlemagne  Melusina   In European folklore, a being that  is half woman, half fish-serpent, who lived some  of the time in a well. Melusina was a full woman  during most of the week, but on Saturday she  had to return to her snake-fish form. In one  medieval French tale she married Raymond,  660   Mehen  Melchizedek

=== 페이지 678 ===
nephew of the count of Poitier, on the condi -  tion that she be free on Saturday nights. One  day her husband caught Melusina in her snake-  fish transformation and she fled. She left two  children and is regarded as an ancestor of three  noble French families. Occasionally Melusina  is depicted in British heraldry as a mermaid  with two tails. Mendelssohn’s overture   The Fair  Melusina   is based on her tale.  See also:   undine  Menelaus   (might of the people)   In Greek  mythology, king of Sparta; son of Atreus and  Aerope;   younger   brother   of   Agamemnon,  Anixibia, and Pleisthenes; husband of Helen.  He returned to Sparta with Helen after the  Trojan War. His return voyage is described in  Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 4), and Theocritus’s   Idyll  18   is a marriage song for Menelaus and Helen.  Menelaus and Helen were worshipped as demi -  gods at Therapne near Sparta. He appears in  Homer’s   Iliad   and   Odyssey,   Euripides’   Helen,  and Vergil’s   Aeneid.  See also:   aeneid, the;   aerope; agamemnon;  atreus; helen of troy;   iliad, the; odyssey,  the  Menorah   (candelabrum)   In   Judaism,   a  seven-   or   eight-branched   candlestick.   The  seven-branched candlestick was used in the  Temple and is described in Exodus (37:17–23):  “And he [Bezaleel] made the candlestick of  pure gold: of beaten work made he the candle -  stick .   .   . three branches of the candlestick out  of the one side thereof, and three branches of  the candlestick out of the other side.   .   .   . And  he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and  his snuffdishes, of pure gold.”  The arch of Titus in Rome portrays the  menorah of the Second Temple being taken  away after the Romans had captured the city.  The base consists of squares. Recent research,  however, indicates that the menorah of the Sec -  ond Temple had three legs, not a square base.  The eight-branched menorah is used for  the feast of Hanukkah; it has a ninth socket  for the candle that lights the other branches.  The Kabbalah calls the menorah the Tree of  Life. According to one Jewish tradition, the  Temple menorah was never extinguished until  the destruction of the Temple.  See also:   hanukkah  Menthu   (Mentu, Mont)   In Egyptian myth-  ology, a sun god associated with war, often  combined   with   the   god   Ra   and   known   as  Menthu-Ra. The ancient Greeks equated the  Egyptian god with their god Apollo.  See also:   apollo; ra  Mephistopheles   (he who loves not the light)  In Jewish and Christian folklore, either a min -  ion of the devil or the devil himself.  Mephistopheles’   most   prominent   role   in  folklore is found in the various treatments of the  Faust legend, which originated in the late Middle  Mephistopheles   661  Menthu

=== 페이지 679 ===
Ages and were a popular topic in chapbooks.   The  Historie of the Damnable Life, and Deserved Death of  Doctor John Faustus,   translated from the German  by P. F. in 1592, describes an early appearance of  Mephistopheles to Faust, or Faustus. “Suddenly  there appeared his Spirit Mephostophiles [sic],  in likeness of a fiery man, from whom issued  most horrible fiery flames.   .   .   . the Spirit began  to blare as in a singing manner. This pretty sport  pleased Doctor Faustus well.”  Mephistopheles   assumes   various   animal  forms to entertain the doctor and then takes on  the “apparel” of a friar and offers a document  to Faust to sign away his soul. “Faustus being  resolute in his damnation, wrote a copy thereof,  and gave the Devil the one, and kept in store  the other.” In this account Mephistopheles is  himself the devil. In Marlowe’s play   The Tragi -  cal History of Doctor Faustus,   Mephistopheles is  the leading demonic character, though Lucifer  and Beelzebub also appear. When Faustus asks  Mephistopheles how he is “out of hell,” the  demon replies:  Why, this is hell, nor am I out of it:  Thinkest thou that I, who saw the face of  God,  And tasted th’ eternal joys of heaven,  Am not tormented with ten thousand  hells,  In being depriv’d of everlasting bliss?  In Goethe’s working of the Faust legend  in his mammoth drama   Faust,   Mephistopheles  makes a wager with God, much as Satan does in  the book of Job in the Old Testament, about how  faithful Faust is to God. Mephistopheles says:  What will you wager? Him you yet shall  lose,  If you will give me your permission  To lead him gently on the path I choose.  The Lord answers:  As long as on earth he shall survive,  So long you’ll meet no prohibition  Man errs as long as he doth strive.  (George M. Priest translation)  In Goethe’s play Faust is saved; in Marlowe’s  work he is lost.  Mephistopheles is the main character in  Arrigo   Boïto’s   opera   Mefistofele,   based   on  Goethe’s work and on Ferruccio Busoni’s   Dok -  tor Faust,   another opera based on Goethe. In  Franz Liszt’s   Faust Symphony   the last movement  depicts   the   character   of   Mephistopheles   in  grotesque variations because according to the  philosopher Hegel, he “represents the nega -  tive principle.” Thomas Mann also treated the  theme in his novel   Dr. Faustus.   Perhaps the best  graphic representation of Mephistopheles is in  the series of lithographs by Eugene Delacroix  published in 1828 to illustrate Goethe’s   Faust,  though a series done by Harry Clarke in a  Beardsleyesque style capture better some of the  grotesque qualities of the demon.  See also:   faust; job; lucifer  Mera   (glistening)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  faithful   dog   who   was   transformed   into   the  Lesser   Dog   Star,   Canis   (or   Sirius).   Mera  662   Mera  Mephistopheles

=== 페이지 680 ===
Mercury   (Laurence Housman)

=== 페이지 681 ===
showed Erigone, Icarius’s daughter, where her  murdered father had been thrown. Immediately  after the discovery, Erigone hanged herself, and  the Mera dog pined away. The myth is found in  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 7). The name Mera  is also borne by a priest of Aphrodite.  See also:   aphrodite; erigone; ovid  Mercurius,   St.   (Mercury   [Roman   god])  (Died 250)   In Christian legend, warrior saint  who murdered Julian the Apostate. Venerated  in the Eastern Orthodox Church. Feast, 25  November.  According to legend, Julian sold his soul  to the devil when he renounced Christianity.  On the night he was to go to battle against the  Persians, St. Basil the Great had a vision of the  Virgin Mary seated on a throne and around her  a great multitude of angels. She commanded  one of them, saying, “Go forthwith, and awaken  Mercurius [who had been killed by Julian for  being a Christian], who sleepeth in the sepul -  chre, that he may slay Julian the Apostate, that  proud blasphemer against me and my son!”  When St. Basil awoke, he went to the tomb  of Mercurius and saw that the body was miss -  ing. He returned the next day and found the  body back in place, dressed in full armor, with  the lance stained with blood. One medieval  account says: “For on the day of battle, when  the wicked emperor was at the head of his  army, an unknown warrior, bareheaded, and  of a pale and ghastly countenance, was seen  mounted on a white charger, which he spurred  forward, and, brandishing his lance, he pierced  Julian through the body and then vanished sud -  denly as he had appeared.”  Julian was then taken to his tent. Taking  a handful of the blood that flowed from his  wound, he flung it into the air, saying, “Thou  hast conquered, Galilean! Thou has conquered!”  The devils then came and took his body to hell.  This fanciful Christian version of history  has no basis in fact. Julian was killed by a javelin  flung by an unknown hand.  See also:   basil, st.; mercury  Mercury   (merchant)   In Roman mythology,  ancient Italian god of merchants and traders;  son of Jupiter and Maia; the Romans equated  Mercury with the Greek god Hermes. Mercury  was protector of the wheat trade, especially in  Sicily. He was honored in Rome by a temple  near the Circus Maximus. Here, a merchants’  guild, known as Mercuriales, established by  the state presided over Mercury’s worship. At  the yearly festival of the temple and guild on  15 May the merchants sacrificed to Mercury  and his mother, Maia. At the Porta Capena  they sprinkled themselves and their merchan -  dise   with   holy   water.   Mercury   is   cited   or  appears   in   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book   4);   Ovid’s  Fasti   (5); Chaucer’s “Knight’s Tale,” part of  The Canterbury Tales ; Shakespeare’s   Troilus and  Cressida   (2.2.45),   Hamlet   (3.4.58),   King Henry  IV,   Part   I   (4.1.106),   Anthony   and   Cleopatra  (4.15.36); and Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (4.717–  5.285) and   Comus   (637). The element mercury,  also called quicksilver, was named after the god  known for his swiftness. His attributes are the  winged hat, winged shoes, and caduceus.  See also:   caduceus; chaucer; hermes; jupi -  ter; maia  Merlin   (Merddin, Myrddin) (sparrow hawk)  In Arthurian legend, the great enchanter, or  magician. Some scholars believe that a per -  son named Merlin lived in the fifth century  and served under the British chiefs Aurelius  Ambrosius and King Arthur. Legend says he  lost his mind after the battle of Solway Firth,  broke his sword, and retired into the forest,  where he was later found dead beside a river -  bank. This thread of Merlin’s story was greatly  amplified during the Middle Ages.  According   to   various   medieval   sources,  King   Constans,   who   drove   the   Jute   Hen -  gist from England, was the father of three  sons,   Constantine,   Aurelius   Ambrosius,   and  Uther Pendragon. The dying Constans left  the throne to his eldest son, Constantine, who  chose Vortigern as his prime minister. Shortly  after   Constantine’s   accession,   Hengist   again  664   Mercurius, St.

=== 페이지 682 ===
invaded   England.   Constantine   was   deserted  by Vortigern and was treacherously killed. In  reward for his defection Vortigern was offered  the crown, which he accepted. But Constans’s  other two sons (who, according to a variant  account, were called Uther and Pendragon)  were still alive and sought vengeance.  To defend himself against any army that  might attempt to deprive him of his throne,  Vortigern built a great fortress on Salisbury  Plain. But although the masons worked dili -  gently by day, building high, thick walls, they  always found them overturned the next morn -  ing. Astrologers were consulted, and they said  the walls would not stand until the ground had  been watered with the blood of a child who  could claim no human father.  Five   years   prior   to   this   prediction,   the  demons, seeing that so many souls escaped hell  owing to a Divine Child (Jesus Christ), had  decided to have the devil father a child by a  human virgin. A beautiful girl was chosen for  the purpose. As she daily went to confession  to a priest named Blaise, he soon discovered  the evil plot of the demons and resolved to  frustrate it.  On Blaise’s advice the girl, instead of being  immediately put to death for intercourse with  the devil, was locked up in a tower, where she  gave birth to a son. As soon as he heard the  child’s cries, Blaise ran in and baptized him,  giving him the name Merlin. The Christian  rite annulled the evil purpose of the demons,  but   nevertheless   the   child   was   gifted   with  strange and marvelous powers. When he was  five years old, he defended his mother from  charges of witchcraft and proved her innocent.  His fame grew, and he came to the court  of Vortigern. When asked why the walls of  Salisbury would not stand, Merlin replied that  two dragons—one red and one white—fought  underground each night. A search was made,  the dragons were discovered, and a battle was  fought between the two. The white dragon  won and then disappeared. Work on the walls  then continued. Vortigern, however, was very  uneasy   because   Merlin   foresaw   the   coming  Merlin   665  Merlin   (Aubrey Beardsley)  Merlin and Nimuë   (Viviane)  (Aubrey Beardsley)

=== 페이지 683 ===
conflict with Constans’s sons and Vortigern’s  ultimate defeat. Merlin’s prediction was soon  fulfilled.   Uther   and   his   brother   Pendragon  landed in Britain with an army, and Vortigern  was burned to death in his castle.  Shortly after the victory a war arose between  the Britons, under Uther and Pendragon, and  the Saxons, under Hengist. Merlin, who aided  Uther and Pendragon, said they would be vic -  torious, but only one would survive. Pendragon  was killed, and Uther added his brother’s name  to his own, becoming Uther Pendragon. His  first care was to bury his brother, and he asked  Merlin to erect a suitable monument to Pen -  dragon’s memory. Merlin conveyed great stones  from Ireland to England in the course of a single  night and then set them up at Stonehenge.  Merlin then went to Carduel (Carlisle) and  through magic constructed a beautiful castle  and established a round table for Uther Pen -  dragon. Merlin also aided Uther Pendragon  in a deception that enabled him to sleep with  Igraine in the guise of her husband. From their  union King Arthur was born.  When Arthur was made king, Merlin became  his adviser. As Merlin could assume any shape  he pleased, Arthur often used him as a mes -  senger. Once he went to Rome in the guise of a  stag to bear Arthur’s challenge to Julius Caesar  (not the conqueror of Gaul but the mythical  father of Oberon) to single combat.  Merlin was said to have made many magic  objects, among which was a cup that would  reveal whether the drinker had led a pure life.  It always overflowed when touched by “pol -  luted lips.” He was also the artificer of King  Arthur’s armor and of a magic mirror in which  one could see whatever one wished. But Merlin  had a fatal weakness: women. Viviane, the Lady  of the Lake, sometimes called Nimuë, beguiled  him and learned all of his magic secrets. Then  she went with him to the magic forest of Bro -  celiande in Brittany. Wishing to rid herself of  her aged lover, she cast a magic spell over him,  enclosing him in a hawthorn tree, where he  would dwell forever. There are, however, other  legends accounting for Merlin’s end. Accord -  ing to one, Merlin, having grown old, once  sat down at the Siege Perilous (the seat at the  Round Table commemorating Judas’s betrayal),  forgetting that only a sinless man could sit  upon it. He was immediately swallowed up by  the earth. Another version says Viviane impris -  oned Merlin in an underground palace, where  she alone could visit him. There he dwells,  unchanged by time, and daily increases his  store of knowledge.  He appears in all retellings of the Arthurian  legends. Tennyson’s “Merlin and Vivien,” part  of   Idylls of the King,   and E. A. Robinson’s   Mer -  lin   include him. Ernest Chausson’s symphonic  poem   Viviane   deals with Merlin’s seduction and  end as does Burne-Jones’s painting   The Beguil -  ing   of Merlin, in which Viviane is casting her  magic spell over the old magician.  See   also:   arthur; barbarossa; hengist;  igraine; lady of the lake; oberon; round  table;   shapeshifter;   stonehenge;   uther  pendragon; viviane; vortigern  mermaid   In   European   folklore,   fantastic  beings, half fish, half woman, with gold or  green   hair.   Mermaids   can   be   spotted   on  moonlit evenings, looking in a mirror as they  comb their hair. Often they lure sailors to  their death and are credited with knowing  the future. In 16th-century English the word  mermaid   was often used for a courtesan, as  in Shakespeare’s   Comedy of Errors   (3.2, etc.).  666   mermaid  Mermaid

=== 페이지 684 ===
Hollywood’s   Mr. Peabody and the Mermaid   tells  of a very respectable businessman who falls in  love with one of the beautiful creatures. In the  1984 movie   Splash,   Daryl Hannah plays the  role of a modern-day mermaid.  See also:   dugong; sirens  Mermerus   and   Pheres   (care-laden   and  bearer)   In   Greek   mythology,   children   of  Medea and Jason. When Jason betrayed Medea,  she killed the children to punish him.  See also:   jason; medea  Merseburg   Charms   In   German   literary  folklore, two charms in alliterative verse record -  ed from oral sources around 800   c.e.   The first  is to be used for freeing prisoners from their  bonds, while the second is for curing an injury.  Several Germanic gods are named in the second  charm.  Phol and Wodan went to the forest.  Where Balder’s horse sprained its foot.  Then Sinthgunt charmed it, and Sunna  her sister;  Then Friia sang charms, and Volla her  sister;  Then Wodan sang charms, as he well  could:  be it bone-sprain, be it blood-sprain, be it  limb-sprain  bone to bone, blood to blood,  limb to limb, be they thus glued together.  See also:   charm; hildebrandslied  Meru   In Hindu mythology, a fantastic gold -  en mountain, the   axis mundi,   situated in the  navel of the earth; on it is Swarga, Indra’s  heaven. It contains the cities of the gods and  the homes of celestial spirits.  See also:   indra  Mesede   In Melanesian mythology, the great  marksman, whose bow ignites when it is drawn.  Once Mesede rescued Abere’s son from a croc -  odile, but he took Abere’s daughters as a prize.  Mesede’s wife was angry at this and had the  girls killed. The head of the youngest was cast  into the sea, where it turned into a log. When  it was washed ashore, flies hollowed it out.  Morave, another hero, covered one end with  skin, creating the Dibiri drum that is symbolic  of a human body and is used in various rituals.  See also:   abere  Metatron   (Metratton,   Mittron,   Metaraon,  Merraton) (one who occupies the throne next  to   the   divine   throne?)   In   Jewish   folklore,  angel who led the children of Israel through  the wilderness after the Exodus from Egypt. In  the biblical account (Exod. 12:5), however, the  Israelites are guided by Yahweh, the Hebrew  god himself. In some Jewish legends Metatron  is said to have been the patriarch Enoch, trans -  formed into an angel after his death. Genesis  (5:24) records that Enoch did not die but was  taken bodily to heaven by God. Metatron is  sometimes called Lad (tender age).  See also:   enoch; yahweh  Methuselah   (man of the dart)   In the Bible,  O.T., son of Enoch and grandfather of Noah;  he lived 969 years (Gen. 5:27). In Gershwin’s  opera   Porgy and Bess   he is cited for his old age  in one of the songs. Methuselah is a common  epithet for a very old man.  See also:   enoch; noah  Metis   (counsel)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  Titaness, daughter of Oceanus and Tethys; first  wife of Zeus, according to Hesiod’s   Theogony  (886 ff). When Zeus was told by Heaven and  Earth that his wife was to bear a child who  would   overthrow   him,   he   swallowed   Metis  through trickery. Athena was born fully armed  from Zeus’s head, which was split open by  Hephaestus’s ax, or by Prometheus. In Greek  religion Metis was a personification of counsel,  prudence, and insight.  See also:   athena; hephaestus; hesiod; pro -  metheus; zeus  Metis   667

=== 페이지 685 ===
Metsanneitsyt   (forest   virgin)   In   Finnish  mythology, a spirit who lures men to make love  to her. She is beautiful in front, but her back is  hollow, like a tree stump or trough.  Metztli   (Metzli)   In Aztec mythology, moon  goddess. In order to make a light for the day -  time Metztli sacrificed herself and Nanahuatl  the Leper in a fire. When she disappeared into  the flames, the sun was created. The male form  of the moon was called Tecciztecatl. He was  portrayed as an old man with a large seashell  on his back.  mezuzah   (doorpost)   In Judaism, small parch -  ment talisman that contains the Jewish   Shema   or  creed (Deut. 6:4): “Hear, O Israel: The Lord our  God is one Lord.” The command to the Jewish  people to attach mezuzahs to their doorposts  is found in Deuteronomy (6:8–9). It was com -  manded: “And thou shalt bind them for a sign  upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets  between thine eyes. And thou shalt write them  upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates.”  The   parchment   is   placed   so   that   the   word  Shaddai   (Almighty) is visible through an open -  ing. It is placed at head height beside the door  because it is a Jewish custom to kiss the mezuzah  on entering or leaving a house.  Mice in Council, or Belling the Cat, The  Aesopic fable, probably originally from India,  found in numerous European collections.  For many years the mice had been living in  constant dread of their enemy, the cat. It was  decided to call a meeting to determine the best  means of handling the situation. Many plans  were discussed and rejected.  At last a young mouse got up. “I propose,”  said he, looking very important, “that a bell be  hung around the cat’s neck. Then whenever the  cat approaches, we always shall have notice of  her presence and so be able to escape.”  The young mouse sat down to tremendous  applause. The suggestion was put to a motion  and passed almost unanimously. But just then an  old mouse, who had sat silent all the while, rose  to his feet and said: “My friends, it takes a young  mouse to think of a plan so ingenious and yet so  simple. With a bell about the cat’s neck to warn  us we shall all be safe. I have but one brief ques -  tion to put to the supporters of the plan—which  of you is going to bell the cat?”  Moral:   It is one thing to propose, another to  execute.  The fable is told in the Prologue to   Piers  Plowman   by Langland, where the cat is the  symbol of John of Gaunt. Archibald Doug -  las, fifth earl of Angus (d. 1514), was called  Archibald Bell-the-Cat because he killed some  of the minions of James III who had been cre -  ated earls. When the Scottish nobles held a  council in the church of Lauder for the purpose  of putting down the favorites of the king, Lord  Gray asked, “Who will bell the cat?” “That will  I,” said Douglas, who then, in the king’s pres -  ence, proceeded to kill the young men.  See also:   aesopic fables  Michael   (who is like unto God)   In Jewish,  Christian, and Islamic mythology, archangel  leader of the Jews and prince of the Church  Militant, guardian of redeemed souls against  the devil. Feast: 29 September in the Western  church, called Michaelmas Day.  In the Old Testament Book of Daniel (12:1)  the archangel Michael is “the Great Prince  which standeth for the children of thy people.”  Thus, Michael is considered the guardian of  the Hebrew people. In the New Testament  (Rev. 12:7–9) Michael fights the devil. “And  there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels  fought   against   the   dragon;   and   the   dragon  fought his angels, and prevailed not; neither  was their place any more in heaven. And the  great dragon was cast out, that old serpent,  called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth  the whole world: he was cast out into the earth,  and his angels were cast out with him.”  In the Epistle of Jude (chap. 9) the myth  that Michael fought the devil for the body of  Moses is alluded to: “Yet Michael the arch -  668   Metsanneitsyt

=== 페이지 686 ===
angel,   when   contending   with   the   devil   he  disputed about the body of Moses, durst not  bring against him a railing accusation, but said,  the Lord rebuke thee.” The myth is found in  later Jewish and Christian writings. The Koran  (sura 2) says that “who so is an enemy to God  or his angels .   .   . or to Mikail (Michael) shall  have God as his enemy: for verily God is an  enemy of Infidels.”  Michael owes his popularity in Western  Christianity to three legendary apparitions. In  the first, which occurred during the fifth cen -  tury   c.e.,   Michael descended to Mount Galgano  in Italy and ordered a church to be erected and  sanctified there in his honor. When the people  entered the cavern at the foot of the mountain,  they found three altars already erected, one of  them covered with a rich altar cloth of crimson  and gold. A stream of limpid water springing  from the rock healed all diseases. The church  was   built,   and   it   attracted   many   pilgrims.  Michael is commemorated there on 8 May.  The second apparition of Michael was in  the sixth century, when he healed a pestilence  at   Rome.   St.   Gregory   the   Great   dedicated  the tomb of Hadrian to the saint and called it  Castel Sant’ Angelo. The third apparition was  to Aubert, bishop of Avranches (706) in the  Gulf of Avranches in Normandy. St. Michael  appeared to the bishop and ordered that a  church be erected in his honor. The legend is in  many ways similar to that of Mount Galgano.  Both Dante and Milton mention Michael  in their works, as does Longfellow in his poetic  drama   The Golden Legend   (not to be confused  with the medieval book of saints’ lives) and  Yeats in his poem “The Rose of Peace,” in  which Michael is called “leader of God’s host.”  John Travolta plays Michael in a 1996 film  comedy. He is a grubby angel who has one  more good deed to perform before he returns  to heaven. Michael is often portrayed in medi -  eval armor, standing over the devil, whom he  has defeated. In the final judgment he holds a  pair of scales with which he weighs the souls of  the risen dead.  See also:   koran, the; moses; satan  Michael   669  Michael, the archangel  Mictlantecuhtli

=== 페이지 687 ===
Mictlantecuhtli   (Mictlanteculi) (lord of death)  In Aztec mythology, death god, lord of the land  of the dead, who with his wife, Mictlantecihuatl,  cared for the dead who came to their kingdom,  Mictlan (Mictlancalco), the place of the dead.  Mictlantecuhtli   was   portrayed   as   an   open-  mouthed monster ready to devour the souls of  the dead. Sometimes he was portrayed as an owl,  with skull and bones. He was associated with the  north, and his color was red. Mictlantecuhtli is  regarded in some texts as an aspect of the god  Tezcatlipoca (mirror that smokes), the Aztec  creator-trickster god. Mictlantecuhtli was also  known as Tzontemoc (he of the falling hair),  perhaps indicative of his role as death god.  See also:   trickster  Midas   (seed?)   In Greek mythology, king of  Phrygia; son of the goddess Cybele and a satyr.  Midas helped Silenus, a follower of Dionysus  (Bacchus), to find his way back to his god, and  Dionysus   rewarded   Midas   by   granting   him  any wish. He wished that whatever he touched  would turn to gold. Eventually he had to ask  that the gift be revoked, because even his food  turned to gold and he was unable to eat. To  rid himself of his gift Midas had to wash in the  Pactolus River, whose sands then became gold.  Because he favored Marsyas in his contest with  Apollo, Midas was punished by having his ears  turned into those of an ass. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 11), John Lyly’s   Midas,   Shakespeare’s  Merchant of Venice   (3.2.101), Pope’s   Dunciad  (3.324), Swift’s   Fable of Midas,   Shelley’s “Hymn  of Pan,” and W. S. Landor’s   Silenus   all deal with  Midas or cite him. Poussin’s   Midas and Bacchus  portrays Midas with Silenus.  See also:   apollo; dionysus; ovid; satyrs  670   Mictlantecuhtli  Apollo, Marsyas, and the Judgment of Midas   (Melchior Meier)

=== 페이지 688 ===
Midgard   (middle world [yard])   In Norse  mythology, the world of people, midway between  the home of the gods, Asgard, and the home of  the frost giants, Jotunheim. Midgard was formed  from the giant Ymir’s body. His blood or sweat  became the oceans; his bones, the mountains;  his teeth, the cliffs; and his hair, the trees and  other plant life. Ymir’s skull formed the vaulted  heavens, held up by four dwarfs—Nordi, Sudi,  Austri, and Westri. Midgard appears in the   Poetic  Edda,   the   Prose Edda,   and Matthew Arnold’s nar -  rative poem   Balder Dead.   Midgard is also called  Mana-heim.  See also:   asgard; jotunheim;   poetic edda;  prose edda;   ymir  Midgard Serpent   (middle world serpent)   In  Norse   mythology,   a   venomous   monster,  fathered by the fire-trickster god, Loki. Odin  cast the Midgard Serpent into the sea, where its  movements caused storms. The serpent’s body  encircled the whole earth, and it bit its own tail.  The god Thor took on the monster in battle.  The   Prose Edda   tells how Thor “launched his  mallet at him, and there are some who say that  it struck off the monster’s head at the bottom of  the sea, but one may assert with more certainty  that he still lives and lies in the ocean.” Another  name for the Midgard Serpent is Jormungand  (wolf-serpent).  See   also:   angurboda; hymir; loki; mid -  gard; odin; ouroboros; thor  Midrash   (to examine)   In Judaism, genre of  rabbinic literature, consisting of verse by verse  interpretation of the Hebrew Scriptures, using  homily (sometimes parables and folktales) and  exegesis. The tradition began when the Temple  at Jerusalem was destroyed.  Mihr   In Armenian mythology, the fire god,  derived in part from the Persian god Mithras.  His worship was added to that of Vahagn, who  was a sun, lightning, and fire god native to  Armenia.  See also:   mithras; vahagn  Mike Fink   (1770–1823)   In American folk -  lore, a legendary keelboat man, the strongest  ever. Mike Fink spent most of his time on the  Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, but he was actually  born near Fort Pitt (Pittsburgh). His nicknames  were “Snag” on the Mississippi and “Snapping  Turtle” on the Ohio. The stories that sprang up  around him were a rich part of a growing form  of humorous American folklore. Fink was called  the king of the keelboaters, one of those men  who guided rafts, flatboats, and keelboats down  the rivers. He was particularly famous for his  brawls, boasts, jokes, and deadly marksmanship.  Even his gun had a nickname, “Bang-All,” and  he was well known for shooting, winning many  local competitions. As entertainment, he and  his friends often shot cups of whiskey from the  tops of each other’s heads. Once he shot the tails  from eight baby pigs on shore, some 40 or 50  yards away. Davy Crockett described the river  man as “half horse and half alligator,” a tribute  to his hardiness and strength. Fink introduced  himself in taverns by saying, “Whoo-oop! I’m  the original iron-jawed, brass-mounted, cop -  per-bellied   corpse-maker   from   the   wilds   of  Arkansas! Look at me! I’m the man they call  Sudden Death and General Desolation! Sired  by a hurricane, dam’d by an earthquake, half-  brother to the cholera, nearly related to the  smallpox on the mother’s side! Cast your eye  on me, gentlemen! And lay low and hold your  breath, for I’m ’bout to turn myself loose!” He  was proud of the red feather he wore in his cap,  signifying his victory over every strong man up  and down the river. Fink died at the hands of  one of his companions in 1822 while scouting,  trapping, and rafting in the Rocky Mountains  as a result of an argument over a   chère amie,   as  Mike called his many romantic interests.  The story of Mike Fink first appeared in  print in 1821 and was soon spread orally. Fink  is often linked with Davy Crockett in printed  almanacs. He has become a representative of  the 19th-century folk hero described by Rich -  ard Dorson as “Ring-tailed Roarers, bullies,  brawlers, and daredevils.”  Mike Fink   671

=== 페이지 689 ===
See also:   crockett, davy; joe magarac;  paul bunyan; pecos bill  Mikula Selyaninovich   In Russian folklore,  hero, with superhuman strength, who possibly  owes his origin to Volos. He appears in the  bylini,   the epic songs, as well as in folktales, and  is depicted as representative of tremendous  masculine beauty. His eyes are like falcons’ his  hair is in tight ringlets, and his brows are as  black as sable. Mikula is a   bogatyr,   an epic hero,  whose little wooden plow was so heavy that a  whole troop of men could not lift it, though  Mikula could with one hand. Part of Mikula’s  power   came   from   Mati-Syra-Zemlya   (moist  Mother Earth), since he was her lover.  See also:   bylina;   mati-syra-zemlya; volos  Milarepa   (Mila the cotton clad)   (1038–1122)  Tibetan Buddhist poet and saint, author of  numerous songs. In his early life he was a black  magician but later converted. He is portrayed  with his right hand to his ear, listening to  the many hymns he composed, or listening  to the “sound” of emptiness, which his songs  embody.  Milkmaid   and   Her   Pail,   The   Aesopic  fable, probably derived from the Indian collec -  tion   The Panchatantra.  A milkmaid was on her way to market, car -  rying a pail of milk on the top of her head. As  she walked along the road in the early morning  she began to turn over in her mind what she  would do with the money she would receive  for the milk. “I shall buy some hens from a  neighbor,” said she to herself, “and they will lay  eggs every day which I shall sell to the pastor’s  wife. And with the egg money I’ll buy myself  a new frock and ribbon. Green they shall be,  for green becomes my complexion best. And  in this lovely green gown I will go to the fair.  All the young men will strive to have me for a  partner. I shall pretend that I do not see them.  When they become too insistent I shall dis -  dainfully toss my head—like this.”  As the milkmaid spoke she tossed her head  back, and down came the pail of milk, spilling  all over the ground. And so all of her imaginary  happiness vanished, and nothing was left but an  empty pail and the promise of a scolding when  she returned home.  Moral:   Do not count your chickens before they  are hatched.  La Fontaine’s version of the fable is perhaps  the best known. The Frenchman derived the  work from Bonaventure des Periers’s   Contes et  Nouvelles,   which in turn derived it from other  sources.  See also:   aesopic fables; la fontaine, jean  de;   panchatantra  Milomaki   In Brazilian Indian folklore, cul -  ture hero, from whose ashes grew the paxiuba  palm. Long ago a little boy was sent from the  great waterhouse, the home of the sun, to  earth. He sang so beautifully that the people  came to hear him. When he was finished, they  returned home and ate their fish, after which  they fell down dead. Their relatives then seized  Milomaki, blaming him for the deaths, and  burned him. As he went to his death, Milomaki  sang even as the flames flickered around his  body. When his body was ready to burst from  the heat, he sang: “Now bursts my body! Now  I am dead!” Though his body was destroyed,  his soul went to heaven. The same day a long  green blade sprang from his ashes. It grew into  the first paxiuba palm.  Mimir   (memory)   In   Norse   mythology,   a  giant noted for his wisdom; uncle of Odin.  Mimir was at one time the keeper of a magic  caldron, Odhrerir, or a magic well at the roots  of the world tree, Yggdrasill. Mimir drank from  the caldron or well and knew all things—past,  present, and future. He once allowed Odin to  drink, but the god had to give one of his eyes  as the price. Thus, Odin is often portrayed  as one-eyed, the socket being covered by his  broad-brimmed hat or a lock of hair. In other  accounts Odin, after having tasted the well,  672   Mikula Selyaninovich

=== 페이지 690 ===
never smiled again. Mimir lived among the  gods even though he was of the giants’ race.  He was sent as a hostage to the Vanir, another  group of gods, who beheaded him. Odin got  back Mimir’s head, breathed life into it, and  consulted it on very important matters. The  myth is told in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   odhrerir; odin;   prose edda  Min   In Egyptian mythology, god of fertility,  rain, and crops. Min was honored in harvest  festivals, during which the first-cut sheaf of  the harvest was offered to him by the king.  According to some texts, he was also wor -  shipped as a god of roads and travelers and was  evoked by caravan leaders before setting out  through the desert.  Min is portrayed as a man with an erect  phallus holding a whip in his right hand. On  his head he wears a crown surmounted by two  tall plumes, with a streamer descending from  its back. During the festival of Min, the queen  of Egypt assumed the role of the “mother of  Min” so that the royal   ka   (vital force) could be  passed on to the next king. In narratives, this  ritual becomes the rape of Isis by her son Min-  Horus. In later times the Egyptians identified  Min with Amun-Ra, and the Greeks with Pan.  He was also closely associated with Horus, who  was in some texts addressed as Min-Horus. A  classical writer suggested that Min was pro -  moted to the role of a fertility god after he  made love to all of the women in Egypt while  the men were away fighting wars.  See also:   amun; horus; pan  Minawara   and   Multultu   In   Australian  mythology,   kangaroo   men   of   the   Nambutji  tribe in central Australia. Created after a great  flood, they instituted sacred rites for the men  of the tribe.  Mindi   In   Australian   mythology,   the   great  evil snake who sends diseases such as smallpox,  which is called Mindi’s dust.  Minerva   In   Roman   mythology,   ancient  Italian goddess of wisdom and the arts and sci -  ences; the Romans equated Minerva with the  Greek goddess Athena. Minerva had a temple  on the Capitoline Hill, her chief seat of wor -  ship, along with Jupiter and Juno. Her main fes -  tival in Rome, the Quinquatria or Quinquatrus  (fifth day), began on 18 or 19 March and lasted  five days. Sacrifices and oblations were made  on the first day, but no blood was shed. On  the second, third, and fourth days, gladiators  performed, and on the fifth day there was a sol -  emn procession through the streets of the city.  During the festival scholars were on holiday  and prayed to the goddess for wisdom. Most  Minerva   673  Minerva

=== 페이지 691 ===
of the Greek myths attached to Athena were  adopted by the Romans for Minerva. Minerva  appears   in   Mantegna’s   painting   Triumph   of  Wisdom over Vice,   where she is seen routing  the sex goddess Venus. Minerva also appears in  Perugino’s painting   Combat of Love and Chastity,  in which she aids Diana, goddess of virgins.  In English poetry she appears in Lord Byron’s  “The Curse of Minerva,” in which he attacks  Lord Elgin for removing the famous marbles  from the Parthenon to the British Museum.  The goddess also appears in Poe’s poem “The  Raven,” in which a bird of ill omen perches on a  bust of Pallas, another name for Minerva.  See also:   athena; juno; jupiter; venus  minnesinger   Minnesang   was   the   tradition  of lyric and song writing in Germany from  the   12th   to   the   14th   centuries.   The   poets  who wrote and also performed   Minnesang   are  known as minnesingers. The word   minne   in  Middle High German means “love” and an  individual song was a   Minneliet.   The minne -  singers were similar to the Provençal trouba -  dours and northern French trouvères. Their  love poetry was in the courtly love tradition  and reflected for the most part platonic or  unrequited love. It is unclear whether any of  the singer-poets belonged to the higher nobil -  ity, even though the Codex Manesse (ca. 1300)  includes songs by dukes, counts, kings, and even  Holy Roman Emperor Henry VI. Most singers  were no doubt commoners. Some minnesing -  ers, as indicated by the title   Meister   (master),  were educated commoners, such as Meister  Konrad von Würzburg. One singer, Friedrich  von Husen, joined Friedrich Barbarossa and  died on a crusade. Several of the minnesing -  ers are also known for their epic poetry, in  particular Henric van Veldeke, Wolfram von  Eschenbach, Hartmann von Aue, and Walther  von der Vogelweide (Codex Manesse). Late in  Minnesang’s   development, some of the singer-  poets introduced characters from lower social  classes and often aimed for humorous effects.  See also:   barbarossa  Minos   In Greek mythology, one of the judges  of   the   dead,   once   a   king   of   Crete,   son   of  Zeus and Europa; brother of Rhadamanthys and  Sarpedon; married to Pasiphae; father of Acacallis,  Androgeus,   Ariadne,   Catreus,   Deucalion,   Euryale,  Giaucus, Lycastus, Phaedra, and Xenodice. In  some accounts Minos is a wise king, in others  a tyrant who was killed by Daedalaus, whom  Minos had imprisoned. He was made a judge of  the dead along with Rhadamanthys and Aeacus  or Sarpedon. Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Inferno)  makes Minos the king of hell. Rodin’s statue of  The Thinker,   part of his   Gates of Hell,   has been  identified by some art scholars as Minos. Sir  Arthur Evans, a British archaeologist, in about  1900 gave the name “Minoan” to prehistoric  Cretan civilization. The name Minos may have  been a hereditary title rather than an actual  name, and is likely not Greek in origin.  674   minnesinger  Walther von der Vogelweide (a minnesinger)

=== 페이지 692 ===
Minos   675  The Minotaur, illustration for the   Divine Comedy   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 693 ===
See   also:   aeacus; androgeus; ariadne;  daedalaus; deucalion; pasiphae; phaedra;  rhadamanthys; sarpedon  Minotaur   (Minos bull)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a monster, half man and half bull, born  of Pasiphaë, a wife of King Minos II, and the  Cretan (or Marathonian) bull. The Minotaur,  also called Asterius, was kept in the labyrinth  built by Daedalus and was fed young boys and  girls, one of each once a year. The monster was  killed by the hero Theseus. In Dante’s   Divine  Comedy,   the Minotaur, called   l’infamia di Creti  (the   infamy   of   Crete),   guards   the   Seventh  Circle of Hell. The Minotaur appears in L.  Cottrell’s   The Bull of Minos,   Mary Renault’s  novel   The King Must Die   (1958), and André  Gide’s   Thésée   and is pictured in Picasso’s 15  plates in his Vollard Suite (1930–1937).  See also:   daedalus; pasiphaë; theseus  Minuchihr   A hero king appearing in the  Persian   epic   poem   Shah   Namah   by   Firdusi.  Minuchihr killed his two evil uncles, Silim and  Tur, who were responsible for the death of  his father, Irij. When the great hero Faridun,  his grandfather, died, Minuchihr came to the  throne and was deeply loved by the people. He  reigned for 120 years. One day his astrologers  told him that his death was close at hand. “The  time approaches when thou must die,” they told  the beloved king. “Before you are placed in the  damp earth, prepare for a successor.” Minuchihr  called his son Nauder to his side and instructed  him. He then closed his eyes and died.  See also:   shah namah  Miriam   (rebellion)   In the Bible, O.T., sister  of Moses and Aaron, who watched over the  infant Moses when he was in the ark of bul -  rushes in the river Nile (Exod. 2:1–10). After  the Exodus from Egypt she was known as a  prophetess and assisted Moses and Aaron, but  she complained, as did Aaron, when Moses  married a Cushite (Ethiopian) woman (Num.  12:1–16). For this rebellion she was stricken  with leprosy. She died and was buried in the  Wilderness of Wandering.  See also:   aaron; moses  Miroku Bosatsu   In Japanese Buddhist myth-  ology, the name given to Maitreya (friendly;  benevolent).   According   to   Buddhist   legend,  before the Buddha was born as a human he lived  in the Tushita heaven. Before leaving, he commis -  sioned Maitreya as his successor. Some Buddhist  traditions say Maitreya has already appeared in  the form of a fat, jolly, eccentric monk, Hotei  (Pu-tai), the so-called Laughing Buddha.  See also:   maitreya  Misha   In Russian folklore this is a story of  two brothers who inherit equal riches from their  father, but only the older brother fares well,  while Misha, the younger brother, becomes so  poor that he has to go to his brother for help.  His brother invites him to a great banquet,  and Misha goes to the gathering with his wife.  When Misha sings at the party, it is as if he has  two voices, and he soon learns that he is always  accompanied by Sorrow, whose voice was the  second voice he was hearing. After the party,  Sorrow asks Misha for vodka, but there is none.  Sorrow convinces Misha that he should sell his  fur coat, for in six months it will be summer,  and he will no longer need it. This he does,  and when the vodka is gone, Sorrow asks Misha  to sell his sled in order to buy vodka, for in six  months it will be summer, and he will no longer  need it. And so it goes until Misha has noth -  ing more to sell and has to ask his neighbor to  borrow an ox and a cart. Misha and Sorrow are  traveling through a field when they are stopped  by a huge boulder. They go out of the cart and  move the boulder, under which is a large cache  of money. Quickly they load the money into  the cart, and Misha asks Sorrow to check one  more time for any lost coins at the bottom of  the hole. When Sorrow jumps down to the bot -  tom to look, Misha rolls the large stone over the  hole and traps him. Now Misha in wealthy and  builds a beautiful house and lives a life of plenty.  676   Minotaur

=== 페이지 694 ===
His older brother comes for a visit and is sur -  prised to find Misha living in luxury. The older  brother hears the story and decides to go out to  the field and release Sorrow so that he can once  again be of Misha’s companion. But when the  brother releases Sorrow, it attacks him, thinking  he is Misha. Now Misha’s older brother is never  free of Sorrow, and soon his fortune whittles  away. The brother wonders how he can rid  himself of Sorrow, and he devises a trick while  they play hide and seek. The brother convinces  Sorrow to hide in the hub of a wheel, and when  it does so, the older brother quickly plugs the  wheel   so   that   Sorrow   cannot   escape.   Then  Sorrow is taken down to a river and cast into a  stream and floats away. Thus both brothers are  finally rid of Sorrow, and they live ever after  happy and reconciled as brothers.  Mister Dooley   In American literary folk -  lore, Irish American who runs a small saloon  on Archey Road in Chicago, created by Peter  Finley Dunne (1867–1936) in newspapers and  later   collected   into   books.   Martin   Dooley  usually comments on political situations. One  of his most famous remarks was “Whether  th’ Constitution follows th’ flag or not, th’  Supreme Court follows th’ illiction return.”  A collection,   Mr. Dooley at His Best,   edited by  Elmer Ellis, has an introduction by Dunne. Mr.  Dooley’s remarks were read by Henry Adams  and Henry James, who took delight in them.  Mister Moon and Miss Sun   A Korean  etiological tale that shares some motifs with  the well-known folktales   Little Red Riding Hood  and   The Three Little Pigs.   The mother of two  small children must make a trip to another vil -  lage to help prepare for a great feast. Along the  way she encounters a tiger who says: “If you  give me a rice cake, I won’t eat you up.” Three  times the woman supplies the rice cakes, but  when she has no more to give him, he devours  her. The tiger then goes to the house where the  little children are and makes his way into the  house by deception. The children hide outside  in a persimmon tree. When the tiger tries to  climb up after them, they tell him to oil the  tree with sesame oil, which causes him to fall  to the ground. When he uses an ax to cut steps  into the trunk of the tree, the children call out:  “Oh Heaven, please send us a rope.” A rope  drops down, taking the children up into the  sky. The tiger also calls for a rope, but his is  old and snaps, causing him to fall to the earth  below. The children rise even higher, and the  boy becomes the Sun and the girl the Moon.  Because the girl is frightened and does not  want to be left alone at night, they exchange  places. Ever since then, the girl has been called  Miss Sun and the boy Mister Moon.  See also:   etiological tale; little red rid -  ing hood; tiger  mistletoe   A   parasitic   plant   found   grow -  ing in various deciduous trees; in European  mythologies,   a   sacred   plant   and   symbol   of  fertility and immortality. The Druids called  mistletoe “all healer” when found on an oak.  In Norse mythology the mistletoe was sacred  to Baldur, and in Roman mythology, the magi -  cal Golden Bough plucked by the hero Aeneas  has been identified as the mistletoe. The early  Italians collected mistletoe on the first day  after the full moon; a common European prac -  tice until recently was to gather mistletoe on  Midsummer’s Eve or Day. They were also said  to use it as part of a human sacrifice. Probably  for   this   reason   mistletoe   is   excluded   from  Christian church decorations.  See also:   aeneas; baldur; druids; oak  Mithras   (Mithra)   In   Persian   mythology,  god of life, heat, fertility, a mediator between  the gods and men, and chief aide to the good  god, Ahura Mazda, in his war against the evil  spirit, Ahriman.  In   pre-Zoroastrian   times   Mithras   and  Ahura   were   probably   twin   sky   gods,   called  payuthworeshtara,   the “two creator-preservers”  of the cosmos. Between 1400   b.c.e.   and 400  c.e.   Persians, Indians, Romans, and Greeks all  Mithras   677

=== 페이지 695 ===
worshipped the god Mithras, who originally  may have been the sun god, Mitra, mentioned  in the Indian Rig-Veda. During Roman times  the worship of Mithras was converted into a  mystery religion. The god was worshipped by  the soldiers and imperial officials of Rome.  Rudyard   Kipling’s   poem   “A   Song   to  Mithras” captures the mood of the Roman  belief in the god’s powers:  Mithras, God of the Morning, our trum -  pets waken the Wall!  Now as the names are answered, and the  guards are marched away,  Mithras, also a soldier, give us strength  for the day!  Mithras, God of the Midnight, here  where the great Bull dies,  Look on Thy Children in darkness. Oh,  take our sacrifice!  Many roads Thou hast fashioned—all of  them lead to Light!  Mithras, also a soldier, teach us to die  aright!  Part of Kipling’s poem refers to the repeated  reliefs or statues that portray Mithras slaying a  bull. The scene portrays a young man wearing  a Phrygian cap slaying a massive bull while a  dog licks the blood, a serpent crawls nearby,  and a scorpion seems to be removing the bull’s  testicles. On either side of the scene is a young  man, one with a torch uplifted, the other with  the torch facing downward.  What   exactly   this   scene   symbolizes   has  puzzled scholars and thinkers. Carl Jung, pick -  ing up the similarity between the mysteries of  Mithras and of Christianity, sees the slaying of  the bull as “essentially a self-sacrifice, since the  bull is a world bull which was originally identi -  cal with Mithras himself.   .   .   . The representa -  tions of the sacrificial act, the tauroctony [bull  slaying],   recall   the   crucifixion   between   two  thieves, one of whom is raised up to paradise  while the other goes down to hell.”  Jung, however, was not the first to rec -  ognize   the   similarities.   Tertullian,   the   early  Church   writer,   seeing   that   the   pagan   cult  contained baptism and the use of bread, water,  and wine consecrated by priests, called fathers,  wrote that the similarities of the Mithraic cult  to Christianity were inspired by the devil, who  wished to mock the Christian sacraments in  order to lead the faithful to hell. The French  author Ernest Renan, in the skeptical 19th-  century tradition, wrote: “If Christianity had  been arrested in its growth .   .   . the world would  have been Mithraist.”  The   religion   of   Mithras   was   suppressed  by Emperor Constantine when he established  Christianity as the state religion in the Roman  Empire.   Present-day   Zoroastrians,   however,  still worship Mithras as a god.  See also:   ahriman; ahura mazda; rig-veda;  zarathustra  Mitokht   In Persian mythology, demon of  falsehood; son of the evil spirit, Ahriman.  See also:   ahriman  Mixcoatl   (Yemaxtli, Yoamaxtli) (cloud ser-  pent)   In Aztec mythology, god of hunting,  lord of the chase, often identified with the god  Tezcatlipoca, the Aztec creator-trickster god  worshipped by warriors and magicians. He was  678   Mitokht  Mithras

=== 페이지 696 ===
also said to be the father of Quetzalcoatl. The  Spanish cleric Fray Diego Durán, in his   Book of  the Gods and Rites   (c. 1576), says that Mixcoatl  was the “inventor of the ways and manners of  hunting.” The god was portrayed as a man with  long hair and black eyes. He wore a crown of  plumes on his head, and his nose was pierced  with a berry pit. In one hand he held a basket  containing food, in the other a bow and arrow.  His body was covered with white stripes from  the top to the bottom. Human sacrifices were  made   to   him.   Mixcoatl   was   also   known   as  Iztac Mixcoatl (the white cloud serpent). He  was a progenitor, father of seven sons who  were the founders of the seven cities speak -  ing the Nahuatl language. His first wife was  Ilamatechtli, a form of Coatlicue, and his sec -  ond wife was Chimalmatl (green shield).  See   also:   coatlicue;   quetzalcoatl;  trickster  Mnevis bull   In Egyptian mythology, Greek  name for the Egyptian sacred bull Wer-mer,  who was worshipped at Heliopolis. Mnevis was  said to be an incarnation of the sun. He was  portrayed as a bull with a disk and the uraeus  between his horns. Some artworks portray him  as a bull-headed man.  See also:   apis; buchis; uraeus  Moccus   (Mocco)   In   Celtic   mythology,   a  swine god worshipped in Britain and on the  Continent. He may have been the guardian of  boar hunters. Ancient Roman writers equated  Moccus with their god Mercury.  See also:   mercury  Mokoi   (evil spirit)   In Australian mythology,  a mischievous trickster that wanders about,  playing tricks and bringing harm to the living.  His evil spirit is invoked by sorcerers among  the Murngin of northern Australia.  Mokos   (Mokosh) (moist)   In Slavic mythol -  ogy, a goddess who appears in many folktales  as   Mokusa.   She   ensured   that   men’s   semen  was rich in sperm and protected women and  sheep during labor and birth. During Lent  in Novgorod she wanders about at night dis -  guised as a woman, visiting houses, worrying  wool spinners, and guarding and fleecing sheep  herself. At night strands of fleece are laid beside  stoves to appease her anger.  mole   Burrowing   mammal   with   a   pointed  nose, small eyes, and tiny teeth. In Egyptian  mythology the mole was a symbol of blind -  ness because it was believed the animal neither  heard nor saw. In medieval Christianity the  mole was seen as symbolic of the earth and  avariciousness. In medieval folk belief, if a man  ate the heart of a mole when it had just been  removed from the dead animal, he could fore -  tell the future.  Molimons   In African mythology (Upotos of  the Congo), the souls of the dead, who begged  the sky god Libanza not to let the sky fall.  See also:   libanza  Molly Pitcher   (1754–1832)   In American  history and folklore of the Revolution, the  popular name of Mary L. Hays McCauley,  who earned her nickname “Molly Pitcher” by  bringing pitcher after pitcher of cool spring  water to exhausted and thirsty soldiers. She  took her husband’s place at a cannon after  he was killed in battle. Legend says a can -  non ball shot through her legs, taking off her  petticoat.   Whittier’s   poem   “Molly   Pitcher”  deals with the legend. It is believed, how -  ever,   that   a   Margaret   Corbin   (1751–1800)  Molly Pitcher   679  Mole   (Konrad Gesner)

=== 페이지 697 ===
was the woman who performed the heroic  act. For her heroic role, it is said that General  Washington himself issued her a warrant as a  noncommissioned officer. Thereafter, she was  widely hailed as “Sergeant Molly.” A flagstaff  and cannon stand at her gravesite at Carlisle,  Pennsylvania. A sculpture on the battle monu -  ment commemorates her deed.  See also:   george washington  moly   In Greek mythology, plant with a black  root and white flower that saved Odysseus  from   Circe’s   enchantments   on   her   island,  Aeaea, where he was detained for a year. The  plant was given to Odysseus by Hermes. Moly  is cited in Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 10), Spenser’s  Faerie Queene,   Milton’s   Comus,   Arnold’s   The  Strayed Reveller,   and D. G. Rosetti’s   The Wine  of Circe.  See also:   hermes; odysseus;   odyssey, the  Momotaro   (peach   boy)   In   Japanese   folk -  tales, a hero who emerged from a peach and  defeated the demon Akandoji.  One day the wife of a poor woodcutter  went to the river to wash some clothes. As  she was about to return she saw a large object  floating in the water. She pulled it close to  land and saw that it was a large peach, larger  than any she had ever seen. She took it home,  washed it, and handed it to her husband to  open. As the man cut it, a boy emerged from  the kernel; they adopted him as a present from  the gods to comfort them in their old age.  They called the boy Momotaro (the elder son  of the peach). He grew up big and strong, sur -  passing other boys his age. One day Momotaro  decided to leave his foster parents and go to  Onigashima (Okinawa), the Island of Devils,  to seek his fortune. The foster parents gave  him some dumplings to take with him. He  soon met a dog that asked him for a dumpling  and promised to accompany him. Then a mon -  key and a pheasant came with similar requests.  With the three companions he reached the  Devil’s Fortress. They made their way in and  had a terrible battle with the demons, but  the animals helped Momotaro. Finally, they  reached the inner part of the fortress, where  the chief devil, Akandoji, was waiting for them  with an iron war club. He was thrown down  by Momotaro, who bound him with ropes and  made him disclose the secret of his treasures.  Then Momotaro helped himself to Akandoji’s  treasures and left with his three companions  for home, where he became a rich and hon -  ored member of the community.  The story is Tale Type 130, “The Animals  in Night Quarters,” best known in the Western  world as the “Bremen Town Musicians.”  See also:   tale type  680   moly  Momotaro

=== 페이지 698 ===
Momus   (reproach, disgrace)   In Greek myth-  ology, a son of Nox (or Nyx, night). Momus  was god of criticism, ridicule, or fault-finding,  according to Hesiod’s   Theogony   (214). He was  thrown out of heaven by the gods when he  criticized Zeus for placing a bull’s horns on its  head rather than on its shoulders, which were  stronger, and for ridiculing the feet or shoes of  Aphrodite, though he did not complain about  her naked body. Momus is now used as a term  for someone who makes fun or carps at things,  though George Meredith’s poem “Ode to the  Comic Spirit” uses the god as a symbol of  healthy criticism. In Greek art Momus is often  portrayed raising a mask from his face and  holding a small figure in his hand.  See also:   aphrodite; hesiod; nox; zeus  Monan   (ancient one)   In the mythology of  the Tupi Indians of Brazil, creator god. Though  creator, Monan also twice destroyed the earth,  once with fire and once by flood. He was fol -  lowed by Maire-Monan, the transformer, who  changed people and animals into other forms  and punished them for their sins.  Monica, St.   (alone?, to advise?)   (332–387)   In  Christian legend, patron of married women and  mother of St. Augustine. Feast, 4 May.  Her story is found in her son’s autobiog -  raphy,   The   Confessions.   Although   she   was   a  Christian, her son Augustine was not brought  up in the faith. She prayed continually for  his conversion. One day she had a dream.  Augustine writes, “She saw herself standing  on a certain wooden rule, and a bright youth  advancing towards her, joyous and smiling on  her, whilst she was grieving and bowed down  with sorrow. But he having inquired of her the  cause of her sorrow and daily weeping .   .   . and  she answering that it was my perdition she was  lamenting, he bade her rest contented, and told  her to behold and see where she was, there was  I also.” Eventually the prayers of Monica were  answered, and her son was converted. She died  at Ostia on the way back to Africa with Augus -  tine after they had been to Italy. In Christian  art she is often portrayed with her son, wearing  either a black or a gray habit of a nun.  See also:   augustine, st.  monogenesis   and   polygenesis   Mono-  genesis assumes that stories like myths and leg -  ends, songs, rituals, games, or other traditions  have a single origin—in other words, they are  created at one particular time in one specific  place by a single individual and then repro -  duced by others who created versions or vari -  ants of the original. Polygenesis assumes that  many stories are so common to all humans that  they originated at different times and in several  different locations. In narrative research, in  particular, there seems to be a presumption  of monogenetic origin. This presumption is  reflected in the commonly held notion that  “somebody, somewhere, at some time ‘created’  this story.” Storytellers among themselves also  use such opening lines as “that’s not the way  I heard it,” particularly in reference to jokes.  However, the existence of similar stories in  widespread cultures does often suggest poly -  genesis. Some researchers believe that similar  psychic experiences in people could lead to  similar stories in different cultures.  See   also:   indo-european   hypothesis;  variant  Montezuma II   (Monteczoma, Motechuzoma,  Moctezuma, Montecuzomatzin) (sad or angry  lord)   (1466–1520)   In Aztec history and leg -  end, last ruler, who ascended the throne when  he was 23 and engaged in a campaign to extend  his empire. He was noted for his martial prow -  ess, having taken part in nine battles and being  a   member   of   the   Quachichin,   the   highest  military order of his nation. According to W.  H. Prescott in   The History of the Conquest of  Mexico   (1843), Montezuma II’s court was lav -  ish with pomp and “forms of courtly etiquette  unknown to his ruder predecessors. He was, in  short, most attentive to all that concerned the  exterior and pomp of royalty.” He “received  Montezuma II   681

=== 페이지 699 ===
the Spaniards as being predicted by his oracles.  The anxious dread, with which he had evaded  their proffered visit, was founded on the same  feeling which led him blindly to resign himself  to them on their approach.” Roger Sessions  composed the opera   Montezuma,   with a libretto  by Giuseppe Borgese.  Moo-roo-bul   In Australian mythology, an  evil water spirit who drags his victims to the  bottom of a river.  mora   (tormenting spirit)   In Slavic folklore,  a person possessing two souls. A   mora   could  assume any shape, animal or vegetable, though  frequently it could be identified by its bushy  black eyebrows growing together above the  nose. Kikimora of Russian folktales is some -  times said to be a   mora.  See also:   kikimora  Mordred, Sir   (Medraut, Medrawd)   A his -  torical   figure   who,   according   to   tradition,  was the youngest son of Queen Morgause of  Orkney and was raised as the son of her hus -  band, King Lot. Mordred plays an important  role in the King Arthur legend. According to  that legend, he was the son of King Arthur,  who had always assumed he was Mordred’s  uncle. When the monarch learns the truth, he  attempts to kill Mordred by setting him and all  of the children who are born on his birthday  adrift in a large boat. The boat finally sinks,  but Mordred survives and is washed up on an  island, where he is cared for by Lord Nabur  the Unruly. When Mordred becomes an adult,  he makes his way to King Arthur’s court and  is thus reunited with his real parents and his  brother Sir Gwain and becomes a Knight of  the Round Table.  In time, Arthur’s wife, Queen Guinever, is  accused of adultery with the knight Sir Lancelot,  who leaves for Brittany. Arthur pursues Lance -  lot, leaving Guinever in Mordred’s care, and  Mordred takes advantage of Arthur’s absence to  seize the throne, claiming that Arthur has been  killed. He then tries to force Guinever to marry  him. At first she refuses, but then consents, fear -  ing for her life. Mordred grants her permission  to go to London to buy some wedding gar -  ments, and there Guinever is able to send word  to Arthur of what has happened. Arthur aban -  dons the siege of Lancelot’s castle and, crossing  the Channel, encounters Mordred’s army and  defeats him near Richborough (Dover) and then  later at Winchester (Barham Down). Mordred  is then pursued west into Cornwall. Negotia -  tions take place at Camlann, and it is agreed that  Arthur and a certain number of knights should  meet Mordred with an equal number to discuss  terms of peace. No weapons are to be drawn. A  serpent, however, is lurking in the grass when  the knights meet, and one of the knights draws  his sword to kill it. His drawn sword is taken as  a signal to begin the battle. On both sides the  slaughter is terrible, and nearly all of the knights  are   slain.   Arthur   then   encounters   Mordred.  Summoning all of his strength, the exhausted  king finally slays the usurper, but not before  Mordred deals Arthur a mortal blow.  A more morbid variant suggests that Sir  Mordred survives the battle at Camlann. After -  ward, Sir Lancelot executes Guinever for her  alleged participation in the plot against King  Arthur and incarcerates Mordred in the queen’s  tomb. Mordred is forced to cannibalize his for -  mer lover, but dies nevertheless of starvation.  Mordred’s story is told in Layamon’s   Brut  and in works by Geoffrey of Monmouth, by the  anonymous French author of the   Alliterative  Morte Arthure,   and by Sir Thomas Malory in  his   Morte D’Arthur.  See also:   arthur; camelot; guinever; holy  grail; merlin; round table  Morgan   le   Fay   (bright,   great   fairy)   In  Arthurian legend, a witch, the sister or half  sister of King Arthur, who continually plots his  downfall. In Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur   she steals  the sword Excalibur and gives it to her lover  so that he can kill Arthur. Though the rest of  Arthur’s enemies are defeated at the end of the  682   Moo-roo-bul

=== 페이지 700 ===
work, Morgan le Fay is not. She appears in  Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso   and Boiardo’s   Orlando  Innamorato.   She is also called Fata Morgana,  which is the name Longfellow uses in his poem  about her.  See also:   arthur; excalibur  Morgante   (sea   dweller?)   In   the   Charle-  magne cycle of legends, a ferocious giant con -  verted by Orlando to Christianity. He appears in  Il Morgante Maggiore,   a comic epic poem by Luigi  Pulci published in 1483. Morgante aids Orlando  (Roland) and other paladins of Charlemagne in  their various adventures but then dies from the  bite of a crab. Byron translated the first canto of  the poem into English in 1822.  See   also:   charlemagne;   paladins,   the  twelve  Morkul-kua-luan   In Australian mythology,  the spirit of the long grass, portrayed with a  beaklike nose and half-closed eyelids that pro -  tect him as he glides through the fields of wild  grain containing prickling grass seeds.  Morpheus   (fashioner)   In Greek mythology,  god of dreams; one of the sons of Hypnos  (Somnus), who was god of sleep. His brother  Icelus   created   dreams   in   animals,   and   his  brother Phantastus created dreams in inani -  mate objects. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11)  describes the Cave of Sleep. Chaucer’s   Book of  the Duchess   (137) calls Morpheus “the god of  sleep.” The word   morphine   is derived from the  god’s name.  See also:   chaucer; hypnos  Morrigu,   The   In   Celtic   mythology,   a  major war goddess, the great queen associated  with other war goddesses such as Badhbh and  Nemhain, or Macha. It is believed all of those  goddesses are merely different manifestations  of the Morrigu. She was portrayed as a woman  with red eyebrows, wearing a blood-stained  garment, fully armed, and drawn in a chariot by  red horses. Her bellicosity is often combined  with an alluring sexuality. In Arthurian legends  she appears as Morgan le Fay, sister of King  Arthur. She appears in William Butler Yeats’s  play   The Death of Cuchulain   as “a woman with  a crow’s head,” referring to her role as a death  goddess.  See also:   arthur; cuchulain; morgan le fay  morris   dance   a form of English folk dance  based on rhythmic steps and execution of cho -  reographed step-figures by groups of dancers.  The dancers carry such items and staffs, swords,  and handkerchiefs. The dance is documented  in England by name no earlier than the 15th  century, but similar dances have been docu -  mented in France, Italy, and Spain. The origin  of the name seems to be related to “Moorish  dance,” but it may come from the Latin   mores,  meaning a “customary dance.”  This dance is often associated with the  Schwerttanz   (sword dance) in the German world.  It has been viewed by some as an initiation rite  for young men, and features a sword as the  connecting link for the dance. The participants  skip, turn, and jump to make shapes like circles,  morris   dance   683  Morgan le Fay   (Howard Pyle)

=== 페이지 701 ===
spirals, gates, and paths or weave patterns like  the “Rose.” In Austria, some pointed to Tacitus’s  description of a similar dance by young German  warriors: “One and the same kind of spectacle  is always exhibited at every gathering. Naked  youths who practice the sport bound in the  dance amid swords and lances that threaten their  lives. Experience gives them skill, and skill again  gives grace; profit or pay are out of the question;  however reckless their pastime, its reward is the  pleasure of the spectators” (Capitulum 24 in  Germania ). Likewise, because the bottom panel  on the Horn of Gallejus depicts a single figure  who has a raised foot, as if in dance, this is inter -  preted as documentation that sword dancing is  a remnant of an ancient cultic practice. Today  there are some similar dances such as those by  vintners in Überlingen on Lake Constance and  by salt mine workers in Hallein near Salzburg.  Some morris dance steps appear in   Fasnacht  (Shrovetide) parades and are copied by cobblers  and others.  Moses   (a son)   In the Bible, O.T., leader of  the Israelite departure from Egyptian bondage.  Moses was a prophet and lawgiver whose legend  is told in the first books of the Hebrew Bible;  Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy.  684   Moses  Pharaoh’s Daughter Finds Moses   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)

=== 페이지 702 ===
It was once believed that Moses was the author  of these works, but scholars now agree that he  was not.  Moses was born in Egypt to Hebrew parents,  Amram, a Levite, and Jochebed. When Pharaoh  ordered that all newborn Hebrew male children  be put to death, Moses’ mother hid him in a  basket among the reeds by a stream. Pharaoh’s  daughter, coming to bathe, found the babe and  raised him as her own, giving him the name  Moses, which is Egyptian. Moses’ wet-nurse was  his own mother, though the Egyptians were not  aware of this (Exod. 2:1–10).  As a young man Moses saw an Egyptian  strike a Hebrew. In anger, he killed the Egyp -  tian, fled the royal court, and lived with Mid -  ian shepherds. He served the shepherd-priest  Jethro for many years and married Jethro’s  daughter Zipporah, by whom he had a son,  Gershom (Exod. 2:11–22).  While tending sheep on a mountainside in  the Sinai Peninsula, Moses heard the voice of  Yahweh, the Hebrew cult god, commanding  him to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt.  He knew it was Yahweh because God appeared  “unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of  a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush  burned with fire, and the bush was not con -  sumed” (Exod. 3:2).  Moses appeared before Pharaoh with his  brother Aaron, asking that the people be freed.  Pharaoh   refused   until   Yahweh   produced   a  series of plagues, the last one bringing about  the death of the male firstborn among the  Egyptians. To appease Yahweh, Pharaoh then  let the Israelites go.  After the Israelites left, Pharaoh changed  his   mind,   and   the   Egyptian   army   pursued  them. When they overtook the Israelites on the  shores of the Red Sea, “Moses stretched out his  hand over the sea; and the Lord caused the sea  to go back by a strong east wind all that night,  and made the sea dry land, and the waters were  divided” (Exod. 14:21).  The Israelites crossed safely, but the Egyp -  tians were all drowned as the waters closed over  them. Moses and his people then wandered 40  years in the desert. In lean times Moses sustained  the people with manna, a wild sweet edible, and  with quail. Once he brought water from a rock  by striking it with his rod (Exod. 17:6).  After three months of wandering Moses  went up on a high peak of Mount Sinai and  received from Yahweh, who was originally a  storm and thunder god, the Ten Command -  ments   (Exod.   20:1–17).   When   Moses   came  down from the mountain he found that his  brother Aaron had made a golden calf to be  worshipped by the people. Moses was so angry  that he broke the tablets and destroyed the  golden calf.  Moses died at Mount Pisgah, and leader -  ship passed to Joshua. Moses was not allowed  to enter the Promised Land because he had  earlier defied Yahweh by striking the rock to  obtain water before commanded to do so by  Yahweh.  In art Moses is often portrayed with two  blunt lumps resembling horns because of a  mistranslation   in   the   Vulgate   Bible   by   St.  Jerome, in which he mistook the Hebrew word  for “rays” as the word for “horns,” which it  closely resembles (Vulgate Exod. 34:29). The  horns can be seen on Michelangelo’s statue of  Moses in San Pietro in Vincoli, Rome.  Various legends about Moses not included  in the Bible are found in other Jewish writings.  One tells of Moses as a child sitting on Pha -  raoh’s lap. The child threw a crown, decorated  with an Egyptian god, to the ground. The wise  men of the court said this indicated that Moses  would overthrow the throne and suggested that  the child be killed. To test the child, two plat -  ters were put before him; one was heaped with  hot coals and the other with cherries. Moses  reached for the coals, then, screaming, put his  burned hand into his mouth, a sign that he  should be allowed to live. His burned mouth  caused him speech difficulties throughout his  life. The biblical narrative relates that Moses  was slow of speech and Aaron often spoke  for him. Numerous paintings exist of Moses,  Moses   685

=== 페이지 703 ===
among them   The Finding of Moses   by Sebastian  Bourdon and   Moses Before the Burning Bush   by  Dierk Bouts. In music, Rossini’s   Moses in Egitto  (Moses   in   Egypt)   and   Arnold   Schoenberg’s  Moses und Aron   deal with the Hebrew hero. In  Islamic legend Moses is called Musa.  See   also:   jerome, st.; joshua; pharaoh;  yahweh  Mot   (death,   sterility)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology   (Phoenician),   god   of   death   pro -  duced from the primeval egg, a child of air and  chaos. Mot was the father of the sun, moon,  and stars.  Mother Goose   Popular title for a tradi -  tional collection of children’s rhymes, jingles,  riddles, tongue twisters, and tales. Numerous  editions have been published since the 18th  century, ranging from 50 to 700 entries. The  first American edition was published by Isaiah  Thomas   in   Worcester,   Massachusetts,   and  titled   Mother Goose’s Melody: or, Sonnets for the  Cradle   (1785). It contains 52 nursery rhymes.  The author of the collection is not known,  but it is sometimes credited in legend to an  Elizabeth Goose (Vergoose or Verboose) from  Boston. In England   Mother Goose   was published  by John Newbery (1713–1767), a publisher of  686   Mot  Moses Views Promised Land   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)

=== 페이지 704 ===
children’s books. One of his workers was Oliver  Goldsmith, who may have written “Goody Two  Shoes” for the collection. Scholars still debate  the exact origin of the collection. Some of the  best-known   verses   are   “Humpty   Dumpty,”  “Jack and Jill,” “Little Miss Muffet,” and “Old  King Cole.” In the mid-20th century, obscene  parodies of these rhymes circulated orally and  were known as “Goose Mother Rhymes.”  motif   A motif is the smallest meaningful com -  ponent of a story. In the folktale Cinderella, for  example, the pumpkin that turns into a carriage  is motif D451.3.3. “Transformation: pumpkin  to carriage.” This motif is then related to Tale  Type 510 “Cinderella and Cap o’ Rushes.” In  the same tale type, under the section II. Magic  Help, the other motifs for this tale are also  listed, such as “magic wand furnishes clothes,”  “transformation of mouse to horse,” and “help -  ful bird.”  See also:   tale type  Mountain in Labor, The   Aesopic fable  found in various European collections.  One day the people of a certain country  heard a mighty rumbling in the nearby moun -  tain. Smoke was pouring from the summit.  The earth was trembling, and great rocks came  hurtling down into the valley. The mountain  seemed to be in labor, and all of the people  rushed to a vantage point where they could see  what terrible thing was about to happen.  They   waited   and   waited,   while   the   sky  grew dark and the rumblings and thunderings  increased. Finally, as the people watched, there  was one earthquake more violent than all of  the others. Suddenly, a huge fissure appeared  in the side of the mountain. The people threw  themselves down on their knees. Some of them  fainted. The rest waited with bated breath to  see what would happen next. The thundering  stopped. A deep silence fell. And out of the gap  in the side of the mountain popped a mouse!  Moral:   Magnificent promises often end in pal -  try performances.  The fable is referred to both by Lucian  in his   True History   and by Horace in his   Art  of Poetry.   When Horace is giving instructions  on how to write, he says: “Begin not as did  the cyclic writer of old: ‘Of Prima’s fate and  farfame war I’ll sing.’ What will this brag -  gart produce worthy of so bombastic a boast?  Mountains are in labor; to the birth comes a  most absurd mouse.”  See also:   aesopic fables  Mouse in the Coke Bottle, The   This  urban   legend   concerns   food   contamination  and includes a rodent, or part of one, found  in a bottle of Coca-Cola. It has long been told  in reference to court cases or sensational news  stories. An innocent person purchases a soft  drink and notices a strange taste. He drinks it  down to a point where something appears to  be floating in the liquid or lying on the bot -  tom of the bottle—a mouse. The story usually  concludes with legal action and a large sum of  money in damages for the plaintiff.  See also:   urban legend  Moyna   In African mythology (Dogon of the  Republic of Mali), hero who discovered the  principle of the bull-roarer, a flat object made  of wood or metal that creates a peculiar sound  when whirled at the end of a rope. Many people  are frightened by its sound, and it is often used  in African secret societies. According to Dogon  mythology, Moyna discovered the bull-roarer  by tying a piece of metal to a string and whirl -  ing it about. At a masked dance, which women  were not allowed to view but often did, Moyna  began   to   whirl   the   bull-roarer.   All   of   the  women ran away in fright. Moyna explained to  them later that the sound they heard was the  voice of the Great Mask and that women and  children must remain indoors when it sounded  or they would be destroyed by it. Moyna passed  the secret of the bull-roarer on to his sons, tell -  ing them to use it at the death of an important  person because its irregular sounds are like the  voices of the spirits of the dead.  Moyna   687

=== 페이지 705 ===
Mrarts   In Australian mythology, evil spir -  its   of   the   dead,   often   found   around   burial  grounds.  Mrs. O’Leary’s Cow   In American history  and folklore, the cow of Mrs. Patrick (Kate)  O’Leary; it supposedly started the Great Chicago  Fire in 1871 when it kicked over a lighted lan -  tern while it was being milked. According to the  legend, Kate told different people the morning  after the blaze began that she was in the barn  when one of her cows, Daisy, kicked over a lan -  tern. A few curiosity-seekers claimed to find the  broken pieces of such a lantern while snooping  behind her cottage, whose survival was one of  the great ironies of the disaster. The fire killed  several hundred people and destroyed nearly  $200 million worth of property.  Mudgegong   In   Australian   mythology,   an  evil   spirit   created   by   Baiame.   Mudgegong  destroyed all of Baiame’s children, who were  turned into wild animals.  See also:   baiame  mudra   In Oriental art, ritual gesture of the  hands, fingers, and arms, signifying powers  and special actions. Mudras are closely asso -  ciated with mantras. As the mantras contain  the secrets of sounds and images, the mudras  contain the secrets of touch. Each deity has  its own mudra, which is to be imitated by the  worshippers. Among the most common forms  are the following:  Abhaya mudra,   symbol of protection or reas -  surance. The right arm is raised and slightly  bent. The palm is open and held outward, the  fingers extended and directed upward; the hand  is level with the shoulders.  Anjali mudra,   symbol of offering or saluta -  tion. Both arms may be raised fully upward  above the head, the palms turned up and fin -  gers extended. The joined palms can be held  downwards, straight in front, in front of the  face, or over the head, depending on the degree  of honor being offered.  Bhumisparsa mudra,   symbol of witness, the  Buddha’s   earth-touching   gesture.   The   right  arm is pendant over the right knee. The hand  has all fingers stretched downward, touching  the earth, with the palm inward.  Dharmachakra mudra,   symbol of the preach -  ing of the Wheel of the Dharma in Buddhism.  The hands are held against the chest, the left  hand covering the right hand.  Dhyana mudra,   symbol of meditation. Hands  lie in lap, one on the other, palms upward  and fingers extended. Figure seated with legs  crossed.  Vara mudra,   symbol of giving or bestowing.  The arm is pendant, the hand palm outward  with fingers fully extended.  Vitarka mudra,   symbol of discussion. The  hand is held up, palm outward, with the index  finger or ring finger touching the thumb.  Vyakhyana   mudra,   symbol   of   exposition.  The right arm is raised and slightly bent, with  the thumb and forefinger touching.  Muhammad   (praised one)   The Apostle of  Allah; the Seal of the Prophets (570–632).  Muhammad was born in the Year of the  Elephants into an impoverished family of the  Koreish (Quraish) tribe. After the death of his  mother and father, Abdallah and Amina, he  was affectionately cared for by his grandfather,  Abd Al Muttalib. When the grandfather died,  the boy was left to the guardianship of his son,  Muhammad’s   uncle   Abu   Talib.   Muhammad  tended sheep and goats, an occupation that to  the present day is considered by the Bedouin  as degrading to the male. At the age of 24,  Muhammad was employed by a rich widow  named   Khadijah   (also   Hadigah,   Hadija)   to  drive the caravans of camels with which she  carried on an extensive trade. He did so well  that she offered him her hand in marriage,  although she was 40 years old and he barely  25. Long after her death his love for Khadijah  remained fresh in his heart, and he never let an  opportunity pass to extol her virtues. He would  688   Mrarts

=== 페이지 706 ===
often kill a sheep and distribute its flesh to the  poor in honor of her memory.  While married to Khadijah, Muhammad  would spend time on Mount Hirâ, a wild and  lonely mountain near Mecca. An angel, iden -  tified as Gabriel, appeared to him and said:  “Recite!”  “I   am   no   reader!”   Muhammad   replied,  whereupon the angel shook him violently and  again told him to read. This was repeated three  times. Then the angel uttered the fives lines of  sura 96 of the Koran:  Read! in the name of thy Lord, who did  create—  Who did create man from congealed blood.  Read! for thy Lord is the most generous,  Who has taught the use of the pen,—  Has taught man what he did not know.  Terribly frightened, Muhammad hastened  home to his wife. Not certain of his calling, he  had thoughts of suicide. On a few occasions he  climbed the steep slopes of Mount Hirâ with the  intention of killing himself. At last a glorious  angel appeared, and Muhammad in terror ran  to his wife, Khadijah, and cried: “ Daththiruni ”  (Wrap me up). He lay down entirely wrapped  in his cloak. The angel spoke to him: “O thou  covered! Rise up and warn! and thy Lord mag -  nify! and thy garments purify; and abomination  shun! and grant not favors to gain increase;  and for thy Lord await!” (sura 74). After this  the revelations came in rapid succession, and  Muhammad no longer doubted the urgency of  his inspiration.  At first his only convert was his wife, who  was afterward called Umm el Mu’minin, “the  mother of believers.” Next were his daughters,  Mecca, c. 1910  Muhammad   689

=== 페이지 707 ===
then his cousin Ali, Abu Talib’s youngest son,  whom Muhammad had adopted. Then came  Zaid (Zayo), his freedman and favorite com -  panion, and then Abu-Bakr, who because of his  reputation was called El Ziddiq, “the true.”  Muhammad’s other converts were among  the women and slaves at first, and then some  influential   men   of   the   community   became  believers. The majority of the citizens of Mecca  threw   insults   and   even   injured   the   prophet  when he attempted to deliver his message. In  time   Muhammad   made   his   migration   from  Mecca to Yathrib, later Medina. This historic  act, called the Hegira or Hijra (departure), is  the starting point of the Islamic era. The date of  the arrival at Medina is not precisely known, set  on 16 June in some accounts and 30 September  in others. The year usually assigned is 622   c.e.  Once Muhammad was established at Medina,  he proceeded to set out the rites and ceremo -  nies of Islam, and he built a mosque to serve as a  place of prayer and hall of general assembly. He  appointed Bilal, his Abyssinian slave, as crier to  call the faithful to prayer five times a day.  Soon afterward he turned his attention to  his native Mecca. Feeling sufficiently strong  to take the offensive, he began to preach the  Holy War to convert the infidel. After some  petty raids on the enemies’ caravans, a fierce  encounter took place between the Muslims  and the Meccans. During the first part of the  battle   the   Muslims,   by   Muhammad’s   order,  stood firm at their posts while he encouraged  them by promising the immediate reward of  paradise to those who should fall martyred in  the cause. A strong winter windstorm suddenly  arose in the faces of the enemy. Muhammad  called the storm the work of the archangel  Gabriel, whose thousands of angels were now  fighting for Islam. Muhammad took a hand -  ful of dirt and threw it toward the Meccans.  “May their faces be covered with shame!” he  cried. “Muslims, to the attack!” The Meccans  were completely routed. Of the captives six  were executed by Muhammad’s order; others  embraced Islam. Mecca was conquered in 630,  and the citizens eventually became devoted fol -  lowers of the Prophet.  In March 632, Muhammad made his last  pilgrimage to Mecca, the “farewell pilgrim -  age.” Standing on Mount Arafat he addressed  the people, more than 40,000, telling them to  stand firm in the faith he had taught them, and  he called Allah to witness that he had delivered  His message and fulfilled his mission. In June  he fell sick and died that month in the arms of  Ayesha, his wife and the daughter of Abu-Bakr.  Legend has it that Muhammad’s coffin is sus -  pended in midair at Medina.  Numerous   legends   have   arisen   around  Muhammad that are part of the folklore of the  Islamic cultures. It is said in one Swahili legend  that Allah created the seeds of the prophets out  of a handful of his light. There were 25 sparks.  The first was given to Adam, and the last was  placed in the loins of Abdullah, the father of  Muhammad. His mother, Amina, was visited by  an angel at night and told that Allah had filled  her womb with the light of paradise. The angel  said to her: “You will become the mother of the  lord of all the Arabs, of the last prophet God  will send to earth before Judgment. When he is  born, call him Muhammad, the praised one, for  that is his earthly name.” As soon as Muham -  mad was born, “he made all the movements of  the ritual prayer.” An angel came and carried  him to the four corners of the earth, to show  him his future kingdoms and acquaint him with  all of the peoples and spirits of the world.  When Muhammad was a boy of 12, he was  examined by a hermit who found “between the  boy’s shoulder blades” the seal of prophecy in  the form of a star, with the words: “There is no  god but Allah and Muhammad is his Prophet.”  The most famous legend associated with  Muhammad concerns his Ascension or Assump -  tion into heaven. Muhammad said he saw him -  self transported to heaven and brought face to  face with God. He reported: “I saw there an  angel, the most gigantic of all created beings.  It had 70,000 heads, each had 70,000 faces,  each   face   had   70,000   mouths,   each   mouth  690   Muhammad

=== 페이지 708 ===
had 70,000 tongues, and each tongue spoke  70,000 languages; all were employed in singing  God’s praise.” This must be understood as a  mode of emphasis. The Ascension is referred  to in the Koran (sura 17): “Celebrated be the  praises of Him who took His servant a jour -  ney by night from the Sacred Mosque to the  Remote Mosque, the precinct of which we have  blessed, to show him our signs!” This passage  and a few others in the Koran form the basis  of a fantastic legendary voyage through the  heavens. In the   Ascension of Muhammad,   the  journey is described in elaborate detail, as it is  in   The Life of Muhammad   by Ibn Ishaq, which  survives in parts of the biography compiled by  Ibn Hisham.  In the biography Muhammad tells how the  angel Gabriel kicked him to awaken him and  then placed him on Burak, the fabulous animal  that   transported   Muhammad   to   Jerusalem,  where   “he   found   Abraham   and   Moses   and  other prophets.” Muhammad then describes  the prophets. Moses was a “tall, dark, lively  man with curled hair and a long nose”; Jesus  was “neither tall nor short, with flowing hair,  and a countenance shining as if he had just  come out of a bath”; and Abraham looked just  like Muhammad.  Several miracles are traditionally ascribed to  Muhammad. One of the best known concerns  the moon. Habid the Wise asked Muhammad  to prove his mission by cleaving the moon  in two. Muhammad raised his hands toward  the heavens and commanded the moon to do  Habid’s bidding. Accordingly, it descended to  the top of the Kaaba, made seven circuits, and,  coming to the Prophet, entered his right sleeve  and came out of his left. It then entered the col -  lar of his robe, descended to the skirt, and clove  itself into two plaits, one of which appeared in  the east of the sky and the other in the west.  The two parts ultimately reunited.  To Western readers, the best-known leg -  end concerns Mount Safa. Muhammad was  again asked for proof of his mission. He com -  manded Mount Safa to come to him, but it did  not move. He said: “Allah is merciful. Had it  obeyed my words, it would have fallen on us  to our destruction. I will therefore go to the  mountain, and thank Allah that He has had  mercy on a stiffnecked generation.”  Muhammad is the spelling of the Prophet’s  name preferred by Muslim scholars writing  in English, although there are many variants:  Mohammad, Mohammed, Mahomet.  See also:   abraham; ali; allah; ayesha;  borak; gabriel; khadija; moses  Mujaji   II   In African mythology (Lovedu,  a Bantu tribe of the Transvaal), the name of  the rain queen, who is believed to live forever.  Mujaji II was the daughter of an incestuous  union of a daughter and father, Mugede. Her  mother’s name was also Mujaji, and both ruled  for a time over the people. The two were often  confused with one another. Mujaji I lived in  seclusion   and   was   called   “white-faced”   and  “radiant as the sun.” She is not simply the  rainmaker; she is also the changer of seasons,  and she guarantees their cycles. The tale of the  two influenced H. Rider Haggard’s novel   She,  which tells of a land ruled by an ageless queen  and of the magic fire that enabled her to live  thousands of years. The novel was filmed in  1935 and again in 1965.  Mukasa   In African mythology (Buganda of  Uganda), a demigod. As a child, Mukasa would  not eat the food his parents prepared for him.  He left home to live by himself, under a tree  on an island named Bukasa. He was called  Mukasa, which means a man from the island of  Bukasa. A man discovered him there and took  the child with him to his garden. At the man’s  home Mukasa would not eat anything until an  ox was killed. He then asked for its heart, liver,  and blood. From that time on the people of the  village came to regard Mukasa as a god. (Asking  for these special things to eat was an indication  to them of his divinity.) Mukasa married and  lived very well among these people, but one day  he disappeared. In time mediums claimed to  Mukasa   691

=== 페이지 709 ===
be able to receive messages from Mukasa. The  female mediums would smoke tobacco in a hut  in front of Mukasa’s cone-shaped house. Once  having served as mediums, the women had to  live the rest of their lives removed from men.  See also:   kibuka  Mu Kung   (Duke Good)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, the spirit of wood, who made himself  clothes of hawthorn leaves. He is one of the  Wu Lao, spirits of the five natural forces.  See also:   wu lao  mulberry   A tree used in silkworm culture.  In Greek mythology, it was a symbol of tragic  love. Originally white, it became blood red  from the blood of the lovers Pyramus and  Thisbe. The Romans dedicated the mulberry  to Minerva, their counterpart of the Greek  Athena.   In   Hebrew   mythology   and   legend,  King David consults a mulberry tree to learn  when to attack the Philistines. God tells him:  “And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of  a gong in the tops of the mulberry trees, that  then thou shalt bestir thyself; for then shall  Yahweh go out before thee, to smite the host  of the Philistines” (2 Sam. 5:24). David does as  Yahweh commanded and defeats the Philistines.  “Balsam” is substituted for “mulberry” in the  Revised Standard Version of the text. In China  the mulberry is sacred to the goddess San Ku  Fu Jén. But in Chinese folklore, the mulberry  is never planted in front of a house, as it might  bring sorrow or disaster. If a Chinese woman  carries a mulberry staff, this indicates that she  is in mourning for a child.  See also:   athena; david; minerva; pyramus  and thisbe; yahweh  Mullion   In Australian mythology, an eagle  hawk who built his nest on the top of an enor -  mous tree that reached almost to the sky. From  this location he would swoop down, catch soli -  tary victims, and bring them back to his eaglets  for food. In an effort to bring an end to this  practice, two headmen decided to climb the  great tree. Their plan was to set fire to the nest  at the top. First Koomba tried, but he could not  reach the top. Then Murriwunda climbed up.  He came back down exhausted, saying that he  too had been unable to reach the top. Actually,  he had instructed the fire not to burn until after  he and the other headmen had left the site of  Mullion’s tree. When they were a safe distance  away, a blaze broke out that lit the evening sky.  It completely burned the tree, even its roots.  Today it is said that hollows can be traced in  the ground where the roots once grew.  Mullo   (mule)   In Celtic mythology, a tute -  lary god of mule drivers, worshipped by the  Continental   Celts.   Ancient   Roman   writers  equated Mullo with their god Mars, because  he was as a healing god, especially for diseases  of the eyes.  See also:   mars  Mulungu   In African mythology (Nyamwezi  of Tanzania), supreme being equated by African  Christians, who make up more than 40 percent  of the population, with God. Most Christian  translations   of   the   Bible   in   various   African  languages have adopted Mulungu for the word  god.   Humans were originally intended to live  forever, and Mulungu sent a chameleon to  give them the news. It lingered on the way,  however, and stammered when delivering the  message. Thus, Mulungu sent a bird that told  the people they would die and disappear like  the roots of a tree.  See also:   olorun; unkulunkulu; wele  mummy   (bituminized thing)   The body of  a human being or animal that has been inten -  tionally preserved. The dogs and jackals that  lived at the edge of the desert were carrion eat -  ers and often dug up corpses that were buried  in shallow graves. To avert this, the Egyptians  tried to placate Anubis, “the dog who swallows  millions.” Anubis plays a role in the Osiris  myth as the god who invented mummifica -  tion in order to preserve the body of Osiris.  692   Mu Kung

=== 페이지 710 ===
The Egyptians evolved the ritual and practices  of mummification over the course of several  centuries, and the methods used varied widely  throughout the course of time. In general, the  soft tissues of the body were removed through  the nose and via an incision in the flank of the  torso. Those internal organs deemed worthy of  preservation were entrusted to the care of the  canopic jars. The body was then treated with  natron, a drying agent, and in the better exam -  ples was bathed in unguents and ointments and  anointed with oils as it was wrapped in strips  of linen. Throughout the wrapping process  various amulets were used to ensure certain  protections and prerogatives of the deceased  in his journey to the underworld were wrapped  within those bandages. It is thought that the  embalming process in its most elaborate form  took up to 70 days. One description of the  process is found in Herodotus’s   History   (book  2).   Mummies,   or   parts   of   mummies,   were  used as medicine for centuries in Christian  Europe. In Scotland, for example, in 1612 a  mummy cost eight shillings a pound. When  genuine Egyptian mummies were not avail -  able, the bodies of criminals were used instead.  The 17th-century English author Sir Thomas  Browne wrote that “Mummy is become mer -  chandise.” Interest in mummies increased with  the discovery of Tutankhamen’s tomb in 1922.  Various Hollywood films deal with them, the  most famous starring Boris Karloff in 1932,  titled   The Mummy.  See also:   anubis; osiris  Mu-monto   In   Siberian   mythology,   hero  in a Buriat myth who visited the land of the  dead. Once Mu-monto went to the land of the  dead to demand the return of a horse he had  sacrificed at his father’s funeral. To reach the  land of the dead, Mu-monto went due north  and found a rock, which he lifted. He said,  “Come here.” Suddenly a black fox appeared  from under the rock and led him the rest of  the way. When he arrived in the land of the  dead, he saw all types of punishments meted  out to those who had led evil lives. Thieves  were bound, liars had their lips sewn up, and  adulterous wives were tied to thorn bushes.  Mu-monto also saw the reward for the good.  There was a poor woman who now lived a life  of luxury and an evil rich woman who lived  in rags. (The myth does not tell if Mu-monto  recovered his horse.)  Mungan-Ngana   In Australian mythology,  culture hero who taught the people crafts and  gave them names. His son was Tundun, who  taught men initiation ceremonies. However,  Mungan-Ngana   693  An ancient Egyptian sarcophagus  that would have housed a mummy

=== 페이지 711 ===
the ceremonies were then revealed to women,  and   as   a   result   Mungan-Ngana   sent   fire  between   heaven   and   earth,   killing   all   life  except for Tundun and his wife, who were  turned into porpoises and later founded the  Kurnai tribe.  Munkar and Nakir   In Islamic mythology,  two   angels   who   command   the   dead   to   sit  upright in their tombs when they are to be  examined on the Day of Judgment.  Both   the   faithful   and   sinners   are   ques -  tioned on the role of Muhammad. If the cor -  rect answer is given (that he is the Prophet,  or Apostle, of Allah), the body will receive air  from paradise. If no answer or an incorrect  one is given, the sinner is beaten, then feels  pressure from the earth, and is finally gnawed  or stung by dragonlike beasts until the Day of  Resurrection, when faithful and sinners alike  will have to answer to Allah.  In the   Fikh Akbar,   a collection of laws for  Islam written through the centuries, it is stated  that   “the   interrogation   of   the   dead   in   the  tomb by Munkar and Nakir is a reality and the  reunion of the body with the spirit in the tomb  is a reality.” It goes on to say that the pressure  and punishment felt by the body are also “a  reality.”  According to other Islamic traditions, how -  ever, the angel Ruman will deliver the dead  person over to punishment. At the sound of  his voice the tomb will contract, almost crush -  ing the body within it, until the first Friday  of Rajab, the seventh month of the Muslim  calendar. If a man is lucky enough to die on  Friday (a sacred day of the week) he is not  questioned.  See also:   allah; muhammad  Mura   (Muru)   In Hindu mythology, a demon  slain by Krishna (an incarnation of the god  Vishnu). Krishna not only killed Mura but  “burnt his seven thousand sons like moths with  the flame of the edge of his discus.”  See also:   krishna  Murile   In   African   mythology   (Chaga   of  Tanzania),   culture   hero   who   brought   fire.  One day a young boy named Murile was being  scolded by his mother for his misbehavior. He  took his father’s stool and commanded it to  go into the air. First it went up into a tree and  then into the sky. Murile then set out to find  the home of the moon-chief, asking people  he met for directions. After he had worked  for some of these people for a period of time,  they told him the way. When he arrived at  the moon-chief’s village, he saw people eating  uncooked food. The moon-chief explained  that they knew nothing of fire and so obvi -  ously could not cook their food. Murile was  promised animals as gifts if he would show  them how to make fire. He did so, and in  time prospered greatly among these people.  By and by, however, he wished to return to  his own home and sent a mockingbird back  to his people as a messenger. His family did  not believe the bird, thinking that their son,  who had been gone so long, must be dead.  So Murile set off on the journey home with  all of his herds, but gradually he grew very  tired. A bull promised to carry him if Murile  agreed never to eat his flesh. Murile agreed  and directed his parents to spare the bull. His  father, however, disregarded Murile’s com -  mand and killed the bull. Not realizing it,  Murile ate some food prepared by his mother  with fat that had come from the animal. As  he sank into the ground, he called out to his  mother, saying that she had disobeyed him.  Muses   (song,   inspiration)   In   Greek   and  Roman   mythology,   the   nine   daughters   of  Zeus and Mnemosyne (memory), according to  Hesiod’s   Theogony.   They were called Camenae  by the Romans. They were born at the foot of  Mount Olympus in Pieria. Mount Helicon in  Boeotia was sacred to them. The nine Muses  are Calliope, Muse of epic poetry, mother of  Orpheus   by   Apollo;   Clio,   Muse   of   history,  whose attribute is a laurel and scroll; Erato,  Muse of lyric poetry, love poetry, and mar -  694   Munkar and Nakir

=== 페이지 712 ===
riage songs, whose attribute is a lyre (Erato  was   invoked   by   lovers   in   April);   Euterpe,  Muse of music and lyric poetry, whose attri -  bute is a flute; Melpomene, Muse of tragedy,  whose attribute is the tragic mask and   cothur -  nus   (buskin);   Polyhymnia   (Polymnia),   Muse  of   sacred   song,   oratory,   lyric,   singing,   and  rhetoric, whose attribute is a veil; Terpsichore,  Muse of dancing, whose attribute is a crown of  laurel and a musical instrument in her hand;  Thalia, Muse of comedy, whose attribute was  the comic mask and the “sock,” a shoe worn by  comic actors; and Urania, Muse of astronomy,  whose attribute is a glove and a pair of com -  passes. Urania was the mother of Linus by  Apollo and of Hymenaeus by Dionysus. In  Renaissance poetry she is often said to be the  Muse of poetry.  See also:   calliope; erato; hesiod; terpsi -  chore; urania; zeus  Muses   695  Erato  Euterpe  Clio

=== 페이지 713 ===
mushroom   An   edible   fungus.   In   ancient  Egypt, the pharaohs forbade any commoner to  touch mushrooms because they were sacred.  The Hebrews had a general taboo against fun -  gus eating. The Romans, however, loved mush -  rooms, though the philosopher-poet Seneca  called them “voluptuous poison.” Certain types  of fungi grow in the form of fairy rings, small  circles   within   which   fairies   are   believed   to  dance at night. Shakespeare’s   The Tempest   (5:1)  has Prospero invoke the fairies:  You demi-puppets, that  By moonshine do the gree-sour ringlets  make,  Whereof the ewe not bites.  Muspellheim   (home   of   destruction)   In  Norse mythology, the realm of fire, the heat  from which helped in the creation of the world.  Surt guards Muspellheim with a flaming sword.  He will destroy the gods and the world by fire  at Ragnarok, the end of the world.  See also:   ragnarok; surt  Mustard Seed, The   Buddhist parable about  the reality of death, found in various collections.  Krisha Gautami, a young orphan girl, had only  one child. One day the child died, and Krisha  was heartbroken. She carried the dead child to  all of her neighbors, asking them for medicine  to restore the child to life. Finally, she met a  man who said to her, “I cannot give you medi -  cine for your dead child, but I know a physician  who can.” The man sent Krisha to the Buddha.  When she arrived she asked, “Lord and Master,  give me the medicine that will restore my son  to life.” The Buddha replied, “I want a handful  of mustard seeds taken from a house where no  one has lost a child, husband, parent, or friend.”  Krisha went from house to house. “Here is mus -  tard seed. Take it,” they would say. But when  she asked, “Did a son or daughter, a father or  mother, die in your family?” They answered her,  “Yes, the living are few, but the dead are many.”  She then realized that death is common to all  humankind. She buried her son and returned to  the Buddha, taking comfort in his teaching.  See also:   buddha, the  Mut   (Mout) (mother)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, a great mother-goddess, believed to possess  both male and female reproductive organs. She  has been linked to a myth in which Ra and his  daughter take on the shape of cats to slay the  Apophis   serpent.   When   she   quarreled   with  her father, she too assumed the shape of a cat  and roamed the Libyan desert. When she was  persuaded to come back to Egypt her return  was   cause   for   great   celebration   among   the  gods, people, and even animals. Mut’s temple at  Thebes had a horseshoe-shaped Sacred Lake.  Her sanctuary there was in use for 2,000 years.  Mut is usually portrayed in Egyptian art as a  woman wearing on her head the united crowns  696   mushroom  Mut

=== 페이지 714 ===
of Upper and Lower Egypt and holding in her  hands the papyrus scepter and the ankh, sign  of life. Sometimes she is portrayed standing  upright, with her large winged arms stretched  out full length. At her feet is the feather of Maat,  or Truth, and on her head is the vulture head -  dress. Sometimes, however, this versatile deity  is portrayed with the head of a man or a vulture  and with a phallus and lion claws. The Greeks  identified Mut with Hera, the wife of Zeus.  See also:   ankh; apophis; great goddess;  hera; maat; ra  Muta   (silence)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess of silence and quiet. Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 2)  cites the goddess.  See also:   ovid  Mwambu and Sela   In African mythology  (Luyia of Kenya), the first man and woman.  Wele, the creator god, made the sun shine for  them and gave them water from heaven to drink.  This water eventually made all of the lakes and  rivers of the earth. Mwambu and Sela were told  which kinds of meat to eat and which to refrain  from eating, which types of food were permit -  ted and which were not. Wele gave them young  calves, male and female, so that they might  prosper. Mwambu and Sela lived in a house on  stilts and were always careful to pull the ladder  up because there were monsters prowling about.  They remained in the house, but their children  descended and peopled the earth.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla; wele  Myo-o   (kings   of   wisdom)   In   Japanese  Buddhist   mythology,   the   five   fierce   or   ter -  rible manifestations of the Buddha; their fierce  appearance destroys ignorance, the major hin -  drance to enlightenment. They are Dai-itoku-  Myo-o,   Fudo-Myo-o,   Gonzanze,   Kongo-  yasha-Myo-o,   and   Aizen-Myo-o.   The   most  important is Aizen-Myo-o, who is equated in  Japanese folklore with the god of love. He is  portrayed with a ferocious face, having three  eyes, one of which is in the middle of his fore -  head, placed vertically between his eyebrows.  On his head is a lion headdress. He usually has  six arms and carries a metal bell, a quiver and  bow, a wheel, a thunderbolt, a man’s head or  hook, and a lotus flower. Various Buddhist texts  explain some of the symbolism of his iconog -  raphy. If his body is painted red, it symbolizes  his compassion, which issues from every pore  of his body like drops of blood. His three eyes  allow him to behold heaven, earth, and hell.  He wears a lion’s headdress because he is like  a lion. The bell awakens enlightenment; the  thunderbolt symbolizes a pure heart or is a  means to strike down the wicked. The bow and  arrow drive away forgetfulness, and the lotus  calms the agitation of guilt.  See also:   buddha, the  Myrmidons   (ants)   In   Greek   mythology,  ants who were turned into soldiers to accom -  pany Achilles during the Trojan War. King  Aeacus of Aegina, a son of Zeus, prayed to his  father to replenish the population of his king -  dom, which had been destroyed by a plague  sent by Hera to punish one of the women her  husband, Zeus, had loved. A variant account  says there were no people to begin with. Zeus  answered the prayer of Aeacus by transforming  ants into warriors, who later joined Achilles in  the Trojan War. Today the term Myrmidons is  used for warriors “who execute an order, espe -  cially a military command, with ruthless indif -  ference to its baseness or inhumanity” (Bergen  Evans).   Homer’s   Iliad   (book   2)   and   Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 7) tell of the Myrmidons.  See   also:   achilles; aeacus; hera; iliad,  the; ovid; zeus  myrrh   (Smyrna)   A   tree   resin   used   for  incense, associated in Greek mythology with  a tale recounted by Ovid in his   Metamorphoses  (book 10) about a princess, Myrrha, in love with  her father, Cinyras, king of Cyprus. In remorse  for her incestuous feelings she attempted sui -  cide but was rescued by her nurse, who then  myrrh   697

=== 페이지 715 ===
698   myrrh  Myrrha , illustration from the   Divine Comedy   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 716 ===
promised to help her. She told the king that  a very beautiful girl longed to sleep with him  and arranged an assignation. Drunk with wine,  the king did not recognize Myrrha when she  came to him, but after several encounters he  discovered that his mistress was his own daugh -  ter. Horrified to discover his incest, he tried  to kill her, but she fled to the land of Sabaea,  where she bore a son, Adonis, and afterward  she turned into a tree, the myrtle. Her tears  became the fragrant resin of the tree. Adonis  was worshipped with burning of myrrh at his  festival.  See also:   metamorphoses, the  myrtle   An   evergreen   shrub;   in   European  mythology and folklore, often associated with  birth and resurrection. Greek colonists carried  myrtle boughs to their new countries to sym -  bolize the end of one life and the beginning  of another. The myrtle was associated with  Aphrodite, Greek goddess of sex, love, and  fecundity, as well as with her Roman counter -  part, Venus. Among Romans the myrtle was  a symbol of marriage, a rite over which both  Venus and Juno presided. Its blossoms were  worn by brides, and bridegrooms wore myrtle  sprigs. Yet the Romans also saw an evil side  to the myrtle: it was identified with unlawful  and incestuous love and was not allowed to  be displayed at some public functions. The  ancient Jews believed that eating myrtle leaves  gave one the power to detect witches. In the  Old Testament the myrtle is a token of the  goodness of Yahweh, for he promised to plant  a myrtle in the wilderness for the children of  Israel (Isa. 41:19).  See also:   aphrodite; juno; venus; yahweh  Mystère   In Haitian voodoo, the sun, one of  the main symbols in voodoo worship; also a loa  (deified spirit of the dead).  See also:   loa  myth-ritual theory   Mythological research  has long concerned itself with the question of  which came first, myth or ritual. Lord Raglan  best exemplified this debate in his classic study,  The Hero, A Study in Tradition, Myth and Drama  (1936). The central thesis is that hero figures of  mythology originated in ritual drama, not his -  torical fact. Ragland outlined 22 traits of heroes:  the hero’s mother is a royal virgin, his father is a  king, and so forth. By actually awarding points  based on a scale that he devised (Oedipus rep -  resented all 22 traits), he attempted to calculate  whether such protagonists were indeed histori -  cal figures. Raglan became the leading propo -  nent of the “myth-ritual” theory of the origin of  religion. The theory has often been challenged,  particularly when heroic figures, such as Leif  Ericsson, prove to be historical people.  Today the myth-ritual theory is looked  upon as a narrow and oversimplified view  of a complex relationship between myth and  ritual,   even   though   Lord   Raglan’s   scale   is  still used to some degree as a teaching tool  in   cultural   anthropology   and   comparative  literature.  See also:   oedipus  myth-ritual theory   699

=== 페이지 717 ===
6  n  Na Atibu   In Micronesian mythology, a cre -  ator god of the Gilbert Islands. Earth and  people were formed from Na Atibu’s body.  From his spine the sacred tree Kai-n-tiku-abu  (tree of many branches) sprang, with people as  its fruit. But one day a man named Koura-abi  got angry when some excrement fell on him  from the tree. He attacked the tree, breaking  its branches and scattering the people through -  out the world.  Nabu   (announcer)   In Near Eastern mythol -  ogy (Babylonian), god of wisdom, speech, and  writing; son of Marduk. Nabu appears in the  Old Testament (Is. 46.1) as Nebo, where he  is ridiculed, along with the god Bel, for his  helplessness.  See also:   bel; marduk; zag-muk  Naenia   (dirge)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess who presided over funerals. Her temple  was outside the city gate in Rome.  Naga   (Naia, Naja, Naje) (snake)   In Hindu  and Buddhist mythology, fantastic beings with  the head of a man or woman and the body of a  snake, ruled over by Shesha, the serpent king.  The Nagas guard various treasures, especially  pearls.   Sometimes   Nagas’   upper   bodies   are  human and their lower bodies serpentine. They  are said to inhabit Nagaloka, Niraya, or Patala.  Often the Buddha is shown surrounded by  Nagas in complete serpentine form.  See also:   patala; shesha  Naglfar   (conveyance   made   of   nails)   In  Norse mythology, the ship of the giants, made  of dead men’s nails. Naglfar will carry the  giants to their final battle, Ragnarok, against  the gods. It was an ancient Nordic custom  to cut short the nails of deceased persons to  delay the coming of Ragnarok. Thus, the size  of Naglfar depends on how many people are  buried with long fingernails that were not cut.  At Ragnarok, the end of the world, Naglfar will  bring the Jotunn giants to fight the Aesir gods.  Naglfar appears in the   Prose Edda.   Naglfari is  the name of a giant who was the first husband  of Nott.  See also:   aesir; jotunn; ragnarok  Nain Rouge   (red dwarf)   In American folk -  lore, a ghost of a red-faced creature who is  believed to be responsible for the burning of  Detroit in 1805. To avoid its evil spell some  citizens paint the sign of the cross on their  homes. Tales of a Red Dwarf date back over  200 years. Witnesses of this goblin-like crea -  ture describe it as no more than two-and-half  feet tall, covered in dark red to black skin or  fur with blazing red eyes. Cadillac, the founder  of Detroit (1701), is rumored to have encoun -  700

=== 페이지 718 ===
tered and even attacked the Red Dwarf. Within  days Cadillac lost both his fame and fortune.  On 30 July 1763, the day before the battle of  Bloody Run, the creature was seen dancing  along the banks of the Detroit River. Several  citizens of Metro Detroit supposedly spotted  the Red Dwarf the day before the 1967 riots.  On 1 March 1976, two employees of Detroit  Edison saw a small “child” climbing a utility  pole. Fearing the child might fall, the two men  called out to him, and much to their surprise,  the child leaped from the top of the 20-foot  pole and scurried away. The next day Detroit  was buried in one of the worst snowstorms in  its history.  Nairyo-sangha   In Persian mythology, mes -  senger of the good god, Ahura Mazda, who  lives in the navel of kings and is a companion of  the god Mithras. Nairyo-sangha is worshipped  along with Sraosha, one of the seven Amesha  Spentas, who will help judge the world.  See also:   ahura mazda; mithras  Najara   In   Australian   mythology,   a   spirit  who lures young boys away from their tribes  and makes them forget their language. Najara  was a tribesman of the Djauan country. One  day he went off to spear an emu. He sat down  at the base of a palm tree and saw some din -  goes—wild dogs—come along smelling the  ground. They killed Najara and ripped his  body to pieces. The moon god, Deert, found  Najara’s body and buried it. At the end of  three days Najara returned to life and rose  from his grave. Deert asked him how he was  able to accomplish this. Najara answered that  the moon god did not need his “cleverness.”  Najara knew that Deert too had the secret of  returning from the dead.  Najara went off into the desert. When he  came upon a boy from his tribe, he whistled to  him. The boy came over, and the two camped  together for several months. When they were  at last sighted by other members of the tribe,  the boy fled. Eventually he was caught and  brought back to the tribal camp. Najara, on  the other hand, showed no fear. He suddenly  disappeared and was never seen again. It was  a long time before the boy would eat the food  of his tribe or speak their language. To this  day it is believed that when the spirit of Najara  whistles in the grass, boys will be lured away  and forget their tribe’s language.  See also:   deert; gidja  Nakaa   In   Micronesian   mythology,   the  guardian of a primordial tree. According to a  Gilbert Island myth, it was Nakaa who watched  over a tree given to women at the beginning of  time. Men, who were made to lie apart from  women, were innocent and were forbidden to  touch the tree. The men were given a fish trap  that supplied them with plentiful fish. They  were also given a tree of their own, which bore  a single nut. Each time the nut was picked,  another would grow in its place. One day when  Nakaa   was   away,   the   men   disobeyed   him  and touched the women’s tree. When Nakaa  returned, he found some of the men’s hairs  on it and knew they had been there. He grew  very angry and permitted death to enter the  world.  Nakaa sat down by the entrance to the spirit  world and wove a net, which he used to capture  the spirits of the wrongdoers as they attempted  to seek rest for their souls. The spirits of the  good people were free to enter the realm of the  afterlife, but the spirits of the violators could  not. Depending on which tribe is telling the  myth, the souls of the blessed go either to an  island, somewhere underground, or to a place  in the sky.  Nakk   In Finno-Ugric mythology, evil water  spirit living in the deepest spot in the water.  Nakk could appear in many different shapes,  both human and animal, though the Estonians  usually imagined him as a gray old man who  swallowed everything in the water that came  his way. Sometimes he seated himself on the  shore   to   watch   people   or   bewitched   them  Nakk   701

=== 페이지 719 ===
with his songs, which forced men and animals  to dance until they fell into the sea and were  drowned. The female counterpart of Nakk was  Nakineiu (Nakk’s maid), a beautiful girl who  sat on the surface of the water, on a stone on  the shore, or in the shadow of a tree growing  near the river, combing her long golden-yel -  low hair. Sometimes she appeared naked with  a half human and half fish body. Like her male  counterpart, she too sang.  See also:   lorelei  Nalul   In   Australian   mythology,   a   man   of  unknown origin who one day came out of  the desert to a lovely green place of fig trees,  palms, and flowers. He heard the sound of  laughing girls and ever so gradually crept up to  them. Unseen by them, he parted the reeds and  saw a beautiful girl with long hair. Nalul caught  her by the hair, but she fought him. Finally,  he threw sand into her eyes and while she  was blinded, he tied her to a tree. In time he  brought her some honey to eat, but she seemed  not to know what it was and apparently did not  understand his language. Only after he rubbed  the sweat of his body across her mouth, ears,  and eyes could she understand him. He then  heated some bark and placed it by the girl’s ears  so she could hear the sound of water. When he  had finished, Nalul called her Nyal-Warrai-  Warrai, the girl from the water. Now she freely  went with him and no longer had to be tied.  When they passed the country where her sis -  ters lived, they called to her. Although she did  not want to, she felt compelled to go back to  the water whence she had come. She was never  seen by Nalul again. It is said that she went to  be with her father, the rainbow snake.  Nama   In Siberian mythology, hero of the  flood myth as told by the Altaics. Nama was  commanded   by   the   creator   god   Ulgen   to  construct an ark. Because Nama was partly  blind, he asked the assistance of his three sons,  Sozun-uul, Sar-uul, and Balyka. When the ark  was finished Nama, his wife, his sons, some  other people, and animals were placed aboard.  When the flood came, all were saved. After  many years, when Nama had grown old and  was near death, his wife asked him to kill all of  the people and animals he had originally saved  so he could be lord of the dead in the next  world. However, his son Sozun-uul convinced  his father that this was wrong, so instead the  old man killed his wife by cutting her in two.  When Nama died, he took his son Sozun-uul  to heaven with him, where he was later trans -  formed into a constellation of five stars.  In later mythology Nama became lord of  the dead and is called Jaik-Khan (the flood  prince).   He   is   invoked   as   an   intermediary  between God and man, living in the Third  Heaven, that of the Kudai, seven spirits who  watch over men’s destinies. When Nama sends  the life force to each child born into the world,  he is called Jujutshi.  See also:   ulgen  Namuchi   (not   releasing   the   heavenly  waters)   In Hindu mythology, a demon slain  by Indra, the storm god. When Indra conquered  the demons, Namuchi alone resisted so strongly  that he overpowered Indra, making him a pris -  oner. Namuchi offered to let Indra go if Indra  promised not to kill him by day or night, wet  or dry. Indra promised and was released. Later,  however, the god cut off Namuchi’s head at  twilight, between day and night, and with water  foam, which was neither wet nor dry. In the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata,   the severed  head of Namuchi follows Indra, crying out: “O  wicked slayer of thy friend.” The same myth is  recounted with Narasinha, an incarnation of  Vishnu, as the slayer.  See also:   indra;   mahabharata, the;   vishnu  Nana   In   African   mythology   (Yoruba   of  southwest Nigeria and Fon of Benin), earth  goddess; married to Obaluwaye, the earth god;  mother of Omolu, another earth god. Nana,  Obaluwaye, and Omolu also appear in African  cults of Brazil and Cuba.  702   Nalul

=== 페이지 720 ===
Nanda   In Buddhist legend, a woman who  gave rice pudding or, in other versions of the  legend, very rich cream (the cream of the cream  of the milk from 100 cows) to the Buddha after  he had given up mortifications, finding them  useless to Enlightenment.  See also:   buddha, the  Nandin   (the happy one)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, the bull-vehicle of Shiva, who watches  the   lingam   outside the temple. He has one leg  crooked, ready to stand up and go as needed.  Nandin is also called Viraka (little hero).  See also:   lingam; shiva  Nane   (Hanea)   In Armenian mythology, god -  dess, daughter of the supreme god, Aramazd.  She may have been derived from the Sumerian  goddess   Nana,   though   in   Hellenistic   times  Nane was often identified with the Greek god -  dess Athena as a wise and warlike goddess.  See also:   aramazd; athena  Nanimulap   In Micronesian mythology, god  of fertility in the Caroline Islands. His sacred  animal is the turtle, which may be eaten only  by chiefs.  Nanna   (mother   of   the   brave)   In   Norse  mythology, the wife of Baldur and mother of  Forseti. After Baldur’s death Nanna died of  anguish at his funeral fire and was burned along  with him. She accompanied him to Hel and sent  back cloth for Frigga and a ring for Fulla, just  as Baldur had returned the ring Draupnir to  Odin. Nanna appears in the   Prose Edda   and in  Matthew Arnold’s narrative poem   Balder Dead.  See also:   baldur; frigga; odin  Naomi Wise   American ballad of the 19th  century that tells how Naomi was murdered  by her lover. The ballad is believed by some  to be based on the murder of Naomi Wise by  Jonathan Lewis in Randolph County, North  Carolina, in 1808. When Lewis had a chance  to win a local heiress, he decided to rid himself  of Naomi Wise, whom he had gotten pregnant.  The ballad describes the murder in full detail:  The wretch then did choke her, as we  understand,  And threw her in the river below the  milldam;  Be it murder or treason, O! what a great  crime,  To drown poor Naomi and leave her  behind.  Napi   (old man, creator)   In North American  Indian mythology (Blackfoot), creator god, cul -  ture hero, and trickster. Napi created the first  people out of clay. He then appeared to his crea -  tures near a river. A woman asked him if people  were to live forever. He replied that he had not  thought of that question. “We must decide what  shall happen. I will toss a piece of wood into the  river. If it floats, when people die they will return  to life in four days. But if the wood sinks, death  will be forever.” The wood was cast into the river,  and it floated. Then the first woman picked up a  stone and said, “If it floats, we will live forever;  but if it sinks, we will die.” The stone was cast  into the river and immediately sank. “You have  chosen,” replied the god. Some accounts say that  Napi left after the creation and went to live in  the mountains, promising to return one day.  See also:   trickster  Narcissus   (benumbing,   narcotic)   In   Greek  mythology,   son   of   Cephisus   and   Lirope.  Narcissus scorned the love of Echo, a nymph  (or according to another account, a male lover).  As punishment, the gods made Narcissus fall in  love with his own reflection in a pool. Because  he   received   no   answer   from   his   image,   the  youth killed himself and was transformed into  a flower. In another variation Narcissus had a  twin sister who died. When he looked into the  pool, he thought he saw her image, not his own.  Narcissus has been cited in English literature by  many poets, among them, Spenser in   The Faerie  Queene   (3.6.45) (“Foolish Narcisse, that likes the  Narcissus   703

=== 페이지 721 ===
watry shore”), Christopher Marlowe in   Hero and  Leander   (1.74–6), Keats in   I Stood Tip-toe upon a  Little Hill   (163), and Shelley in   The Sensitive Plant  (1.18–20). Narcissus was painted by Caravaggio,  Tintoretto, Claude, Poussin, and Turner.  See also:   echo; nymphs  Nareau   (Naareau, Narleau, Na-areau, Areo-  penap) (spider lord)   In Micronesian mythol -  ogy,   two   creator   gods,   Ancient   Spider   and  Young Spider. According to some accounts,  Ancient Spider is a preexistent being, living in  either darkness, a void, endless space, or the  sea. Other accounts say he was born when Te  Bo Ma (darkness) and Te Maki (the cleaving  together)   had   sexual   intercourse,   producing  Void, Night, Daylight, Thunder, Lightning,  Ancient Spider, and Younger Spider.  In the account of the Gilbert Islands, Ancient  Spider made heaven and earth from a shell. He  commanded the sand and water to have sexual  intercourse. Their children included Nakika,  the octopus; Riiki, the eel; and a son whose  name was also Nareau, or Young Spider. Young  Nareau’s task was to transform fools and mutes  into normal human beings. He loosened their  tongues and limbs and opened their eyes and  ears. Then he commanded them to lift the  sky, but they could not. So he called on Riiki  and Nakika to assist him. While Young Spider  chanted, Riiki raised the sky and the earth sank.  Young Spider pulled the sides of the sky down  to meet the edge of the horizon, leaving the  fools and deaf mutes in the middle of the sea.  Four women were placed in position to sup -  port the heavens. Exhausted with his labors,  Riiki died and became the Milky Way. Ancient  Spider became the sun and moon, his brains  became the stars, trees, and rocks, and humans  sprang from the remainder of his body.  See also:   spider  Narguns   In Australian mythology, evil beings,  half human and half animal, made of stone.  They cannot be killed.  Nari   (Narvi)   In Norse mythology, son of the  fire-trickster god, Loki, and his wife, Siguna.  Nari appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   loki; siguna  Nasnas   In Persian-Islamic folklore, a demon  who appears in the shape of a feeble old man.  Nasnas usually sits on the bank of a river,  and when a traveler approaches, Nasnas asks  for help in crossing. If the traveler consents,  Nasnas mounts his shoulders. When they reach  midstream, he wraps his legs around his victim  and drowns him.  Nasu   (Nas, Nasus, Nasrust, Druj Nasa)   In  Persian mythology, corpse demon, the personi -  fication of corruption, decomposition, conta -  gion, and impurity. Nasu often appears in the  form of a fly that hovers above rotting bodies.  He is driven away by the glance of a dog in the  rite called   sag-did   (dog-sight). In some texts  Nasu is regarded as a demoness.  Natigay   (Natigai)   In   Siberian   mythology,  the earth god worshipped by the Tartars to  Narcissus  704   Nareau

=== 페이지 722 ===
protect children, cattle, and grain. Marco Polo,  in his   Travels   (book 1), has a description of the  images of Natigay he encountered on his jour -  neys. They were “covered with felt or cloth,”  and one was placed in each dwelling. At meal -  times the images of Natigay and of his wife and  children were “fed” by having grease from the  meal rubbed on their mouths. Natigay is prob -  ably a corruption of Otukhan, a pagan Turkish  god adopted by the Tartars.  Nation,   Carry   (1846–1911)   In   American  history and folklore, fanatic temperance leader  who hatcheted her way to fame. Later she was  best known as Mother Nation. She believed  that God had given her a divine mission to  destroy saloons and the drinking of hard liquor.  She lectured extensively on her divine call and  told her story in a book,   The Use and the Need  of the Life of Carry A. Nation.   She is the focus of  Douglas Moore’s opera   Carry Nation,   as well as  in limericks and tales.  Natos   In North American Indian mythology  (Blackfoot), the sun, whose wife is Kokomikeis,  the moon. All of their children were destroyed  by pelicans except Apisuahts, the morning star.  Nats   In Burmese mythology, generic name  for supernatural beings, both good and evil,  who inhabit air, land, and sea. In some accounts  they are believed to be the spirits of the dead  who have to be placated by offerings. The most  famous group appears in the work   Maha Gita  Medani,   a handbook in verse that contains short  biographical sketches. Verses from the book are  recited at festivals by a   nat-kadaw,   or female  medium, who is believed to be under the pos -  session of a   nat.   The most famous   nat   is Thagya  Min, whose yearly descent to earth marks the  beginning of the Burmese new year. In Burmese  art Thagya Min is portrayed standing on a  lotus, which in turn rests on three elephants.  Natty   Bumppo   In   American   literary  folklore, hero of James Fenimore Cooper’s  Leather-Stocking Tales,   a series of novels deriv -  ing   its   name   from   Natty   Bumppo’s   long  deerskin leggings. Natty is Cooper’s vehicle  for the expression of the author’s personal  views about the mores of 18th and early 19th  century America. Throughout   The Leather-  Stocking   Tales,   Natty   agrees   with   Cooper’s  concept of a class-structured society. He dis -  likes the French, Iroquois, and Catholics, and  reveals   a   disdain   for   miscegenation.   Natty  Bumppo   is   called   Bumppo   or   Deerslayer  in   The   Deerslayer,   Hawkeye   in   The   Last   of  the   Mohicans,   Pathfinder   in   The   Pathfinder,  Natty   Bumppo   or   Leatherstocking   in   The  Pioneers,   and the trapper in   The Prairie.   Natty  Bumppo, whose character is based in part on  Daniel Boone, is the ideal outdoorsman: kind,  strong, honest, and resourceful. He appears in  two Hollywood movies called   The Last of the  Mohicans,   starring Randolph Scott (1936) and  Daniel-Day Lewis (1992).  Naumann, Hans   (1886–1951)   German folk -  lorist who in the 1920s introduced two con -  cepts into the study of folk traditions. His  concepts of “primitive communal goods” and  “sunken   cultural   goods”   were   intended   to  explain the survival of primitive traditions that  had sunk down from higher strata of society to  the common peasant folk. Folktales were thus  the remnants of ancient myths and heroic leg -  ends. Folk songs had likewise sunk down from  earlier variants to the peasantry, and their folk  costumes were seen as the remnants of more  formal attire in the past.  Naumann   was   severely   criticized   by   his  contemporaries and by the Nazi regime for not  appropriately valuing the German peasantry.  Such statements as the following brought on  the criticism:  One should shy away from using compari -  sons with the animal kingdom, but still it  offers the closest parallels.   .   .   . When the  peasants of a Lithuanian village go to the  market in the next town, perhaps to Lida,  Naumann, Hans   705

=== 페이지 723 ===
they move along their streets like ants,  each   one   following   the   next.   And   just  like them they are indistinguishable for  strangers. In addition to a common shaped  beard and a similar hair cut they also have  common facial characteristics and a similar  body shape.   .   .   . The clothing is the same,  their demeanor is the same, the small sleds  or the wagons that the Lithuanian peasants  are sitting on, are all the same. In front of  them they all have the same small horses  with the same harnesses, and behind them  they all seem to have the same woman  sitting on a bundle of hay, her head cov -  ered, her upper body in a short sheep skin  and her lower body in a brightly colored  skirt made from homespun coarse linen:  in brief, the concept of a primitive com -  munal culture appears to be convincingly  displayed   among   the   Lithuanian   peas -  ants.   .   .   . At the market place they stand  around   in   bunches,   they   all   make   the  same movements, they are all spirited by  the same viewpoints and thoughts. When  one laughs they all laugh along; when one  curses they all do the same thing.   .   .   . And  just as they all arrived at the market place  following one another, they all disappear  at the same time, following one another,  they go waddling home like geese all walk -  ing there the same way, completely with -  out any individualism and conduct their  completely uniform life.  Nausicaa   (burner   of   ships)   In   Greek  mythology,   daughter   of   Alcinous,   king   of  Phaeacia, and Arete. In Homer’s   Odyssey   (book  6) Nausicaa befriended Odysseus, bringing him  to the home of her father before the hero was  sent on his way back to his wife. In later tradi -  tion Nausicaa married Telemachus, the son of  Odysseus, and was the mother of Perseptolis  or   Poliporthus.   Samuel   Butler,   the   English  novelist who translated both   The Iliad   and   The  Odyssey   into English prose, also wrote a book  in which he argued that Nausicaa, not Homer,  or at any rate a woman, was the real author of  The Odyssey.  See also:   alcinous; odysseus;   odyssey, the;  telemachus  Ndauthina   In Melanesian mythology, Fijian  trickster god of fire and of fishermen. He pro -  tects fishermen but causes trouble for others.  See also:   trickster  Ndengei   In   Melanesian   mythology,   Fijian  creator god in serpent form whose movements  cause earthquakes. Offerings of pigs and first  fruits are made to the god. Ndengei’s son,  Rokomautu, who is sometimes called a creator  god, gave fire to humankind.  Nebuchadnezzar   (Nebuchadrezzar) (Nebo  protects the crown)   In the Bible, O.T., king  of Assyria who reigned from 604 to 561   b.c.e.  He rebuilt Babylon, restored the temple of  the god Bel, and may be responsible for the  Hanging Gardens. He appears in many leg -  ends. He supposedly went mad at the height  of his achievements, as described in Daniel  (4:33) when he “did eat grass as oxen.   .   .   . his  hairs were grown like eagles’ feathers, and  his   nails   like   birds’   claws.”   William   Blake  painted the ruler in this state, and a 15th-  century Umbrian panel from a cassone (mar -  riage trunk) portrays scenes from the life of  Nebuchadnezzar.  See   also:   bel;   seven   wonders   of   the  ancient world  nectar   In   Greek   mythology,   the   magical  drink of the gods that conferred immortality.  It was given to the gods in golden cups by  Hebe or Ganymede. Ambrosia was the food  of the gods.  See also:   ambrosia; ganymede; hebe  Nefer   In ancient Egyptian cult, an amulet  of the windpipe and stomach, often made of a  semiprecious stone. It is the sign for the con -  cept of “good” and is the plural for “beauty.”  706   Nausicaa

=== 페이지 724 ===
Nefertiti   (the   beautiful   one   has   come)   (fl.  1372–1350   b.c.e. )   Egyptian queen, wife of  Akhenaten, who worked with her husband in  establishing the worship of Aten. The famous  head of Nefertiti in the Egyptian Museum of  Berlin is but one of many fine portraits of the  ruler.  See also:   akhenaten; aten  Neith   (Neit, Net, Nit) (the terrifying one)  In Egyptian mythology, goddess of the city of  Sai, which served as Egypt’s capital during the  Twenty-sixth Dynasty. When Sai became the  major city, Neith’s importance increased con -  siderably. A great festival, called the Feast of  Lamps, was held in her honor. During the fes -  tival, according to Herodotus’s   History   (book  2), devotees burned a multitude of lights in  her honor all night in the open air. Neith  became associated with creation myths, simi -  lar to those surrounding Hathor. As a goddess  of weaving and the domestic arts, Neith was   Neith  Neith   707  Nebuchadnezzar   (William Blake)

=== 페이지 725 ===
said to have woven the world with her shuttle.  She was sometimes called the first birthgiver,  the mother who bore the sun before anything  else   existed   and   thus   could   be   considered  the oldest of beings. On her temple wall was  inscribed: “I am all that has been, that is, and  that will be.” In Egyptian art Neith was usu -  ally depicted as a woman wearing the crown of  Lower Egypt, holding a scepter in one hand  and the ankh, sign of life, in the other. The  Greeks identified Neith with their goddess  Athene.  See also:   ankh; athene; hathor  Nei Tituaabine   In Micronesian mythol -  ogy,   Gilbert   Island   tree   goddess.   She   was  once a mortal who fell in love with a chief,  Auriaria,   but   died   when   she   bore   no   off -  spring. From her body sprouted various trees  and fruits.  Nekhebet   (Nechbet)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, the vulture goddess of Upper Egypt, a  patron of childbirth. She was called “the father  of fathers, the mother of mothers” in some  texts. Often she was portrayed as a vulture,  though she also appeared in Egyptian art as  a woman wearing the vulture headdress sur -  mounted by the white crown of Upper Egypt.  The Greeks identified her with their goddess  Eileithyia.  See also:   vulture  Nemesis   (due   enactment,   retribution)   In  Greek mythology, goddess of vengeance or  personification of the righteous anger of the  gods;   daughter   of   Erebus   and   Nox;   sister  of   Cer,   Aether,   Dreams,   Hemera,   Hypnos,  Momus,   Thanatos,   and   Charon.   She   was  seduced by Zeus, and some accounts say she  was the mother of Helen. Nemesis punishes  hubris   (presumption or pride), as when she  pursued Agamemnon for his pride in victory.  Dürer made a woodcut of the goddess. Byron’s  dramatic poem   Manfred   has Nemesis as a ser -  vant of Arimanes, the devil.  See also:   agamemnon; helen of troy; nox;  zeus  Nemterequeteba   In   the   mythology   of  the Chibcha Indians of Colombia, a culture  hero, often identified with the chief of the  gods, Bochica. He was similar to Tonopa, of  whom he may be one version. He was pur -  sued by Huitaca, but he changed her into an  owl or a moon. Nemterequeteba organized  a cult, appointed a high priest, and taught  chastity, sobriety, social order, and the arts  of   spinning,   weaving,   and   textile   painting.  When his task was finished, he disappeared.  In Chibcha art he is portrayed as an old man  with long hair and a beard down to his girdle.  Nemterequeteba is also called Chimizapagua,  the messenger of Chiminigagua (the creator  Nekhebet  708   Nei Tituaabine

=== 페이지 726 ===
god) and Sugumonxe or Sugunsua, the person  who disappears.  See also:   bochica  Nephite legend   In Europe the term   legend  was traditionally applied to the lives of Christian  saints, and continues to be used in this way among  the members of the Church of Jesus Christ  of Latter-day Saints, commonly known as the  Mormons. In the   Book of Mormon,   the Nephites  are described as people descended from Nephi, a  prophet who ostensibly left Jerusalem at the urg -  ing of God in 600   b.c.e.   and made his way with  his family to the Western Hemisphere, arriving  sometime around 589   b.c.e.   The Nephites were  initially a righteous people but fell into wick -  edness and were utterly destroyed by the rival  Lamanites around   a.d.   385. The Three Nephites  are disciples of Jesus who were blessed by Him to  “never taste of death.” They still walk the earth,  and stories about modern encounters with one  or more of the Three Nephites are common in  Mormon folklore, particularly stories of rescue  of lone travelers (similar to the story of the  “Vanishing Hitchhiker”). Typically someone is  lost in the forest, or his or her car breaks down  on a remote highway. A man (sometimes three  men) with a long beard appears and guides the  lost individual to safety.  See also:   vanishing hitchhiker  Nephthys   In   Egyptian   mythology,   Greek  form of Nebthet; sister of Osiris, Set and Isis;  often   associated   with   darkness,   decay,   and  death. In early Egyptian mythology Nephthys  was usually regarded as the female counter -  part of the evil god Set, with whom she had  remained barren, and was thus called an “imita -  tion woman with no vagina.” She then went to  her other brother, Osiris, whose wife was Isis,  and tricked him into copulating with her. She  conceived Anubis, the jackal-headed god. Later,  however, she became the faithful friend of Isis  and helped her sister collect the scattered limbs  of Osiris, who had been dismembered by Set,  and reassemble his body. She and Isis were both  present when Anubis mummified the body. In  the Pyramid Texts she is considered the friend  of the dead, and the same role is attributed to  her in The Book of the Dead .  Although Nephthys was a goddess of death,  she was also the female counterpart of the  ithyphallic god Min, who symbolized virility,  reproduction, and regeneration. Nephthys was  also skilled in magic and “words of power,” and  as a healing deity she was, with Isis and Osiris,  one of the great deities of Mendes in the delta  region. She often appeared with Isis on the  walls of coffins, with winged arms outstretched  in a gesture of protection. Among her many  titles were “mistress of the gods,” “great god -  dess, lady of life,” “sister of the god,” and “lady  of heaven, mistress of two lands.”  Egyptian art portrays Nephthys as a woman  wearing on her head a pair of horns and a disk  surmounted by the hieroglyph of her name.  See also:   anubis; book of the dead, the;  isis; min; osiris; pyramid texts; set  Nephthys  Nephthys   709

=== 페이지 727 ===
Neptune   In Roman religion, the early Italian  god of freshwater pools who became identi -  fied with the Greek Poseidon; possibly called  Nethunus by the Etruscans; called Poseidon by  the Greeks; husband of Salacia. Generally, in  English literature Neptune is seen as a personi -  fication of the ocean. Shakespeare’s   Macbeth  says:   “Will   all   great   Neptune’s   ocean   wash  this blood / Clean from my hand” (2.2.60–61).  Neptune also was seen as the god who watched  over England, and he is cited in Shakespeare’s  Cymbeline   (3.2.19–20) as such. He also is cited or  appears in Milton’s   Comus   and his epic   Paradise  Lost,   Ben Jonson’s   Neptune’s Triumph,   and the  opening masque in Beaumont and Fletcher’s  The Maid’s Tragedy.   The most famous image of  the god is probably that by Bernini in the Trevi  Fountain in Rome. The artist also did a   Neptune  and Triton.   Neptune’s attributes are the trident,  a weapon favored by Mediterranean fishermen,  and the whip, reminding his worshipper that  he was also a god of horses. Neptune’s festival  date was 23 July.  See also:   poseidon  Nereids   (the wet ones)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, sea nymphs or mermaids, the 50 or 100  daughters of Nereus, a sea god, and Doris.  Among them were Actaee, Agave, Amatheia,  Amphinome,   Amphithoe,   Amphitrite,  Apseudes, Callianassa, Callianeira, Clymene,  Creusa,   Cymodoce,   Cymothoe,   Dexamene,  Doris,   Doto,   Dynamene,   Erato,   Eudora,  Galatea, Glauce, Halie, Iaera, Ianassa, Ianeira,  Limnoreia, Maera, Melite, Nemertes, Nesaera,  Oreithyia, Panope, Pasithea, Pherusa, Proto,  Psamanthe, Speio, Thalia, Thetis, and Thoe.  The   Nereids   were   attendants   on   Poseidon.  The   most   famous   are   Amphitrite,   wife   of  Poseidon,   and   Thetis,   mother   of   Achilles.  Images of Nereids were often carved on Roman  sarcophagi indicating the passage of the soul to  the other world.  See also:   achilles; amphitrite; doris; mer -  maid; nymphs; poseidon; thetis  Nergal   (lord   of   the   great   city)   In   Near  Eastern   mythology   (Babylonian-Assyrian),  war god, lord of the underworld, husband of  Ereshkigal, goddess of the underworld. When  he trespasses against a taboo of the underworld,  sexual intercourse, he is doomed to stay for -  Neptune Riding on a Dolphin into  Venice Harbor   (Jacopo de Barberi)  Thetis Ordering the Nereids  into the Sea   (John Flaxman)  710   Neptune

=== 페이지 728 ===
ever. In some accounts he is said to be the son  of Bel. He was addressed as “the hero of the  gods, who marches in front of them” to battle,  and among his names (when identified with the  planet Mars) are those of Allamu and Almu.  Assyrian kings regarded Nergal as the patron  god of hunting. Nergal was portrayed wearing  a crown and was waited on by 14 attendants.  His sacred city of the dead was Cutha.  See also:   bel; ereshkigal  Nero, Claudius Caesar   (Ruled 54–68   c.e. )  In Roman history and legend, emperor who  “fiddled while Rome burned” and then blamed  the Christians for the fire. The fiddling is leg -  end and has no historical basis. Nero’s mother,  Agrippina, was suspected of killing the emper -  or Claudius, her uncle, so that Nero would  succeed instead of Britannicus, Claudius’s own  son. Nero later had his mother killed. He was  tutored by Seneca, the author and philosopher.  Poppaea Sabina, his mistress from 58   c.e.   and  then his wife from 62 until her death in 65, was  believed responsible for the death of Nero’s  mother and his divorce from Octavia for steril -  ity. When Nero’s armies revolted on the Rhine,  the emperor killed himself, but for some time  rumors circulated that he had not really died.  His dying words were “what an artist dies in  me.” After the fire in Rome he built the   domus  aurea   (golden house) in a park overlooking an  artificial lake. In front stood a massive statue  of the emperor as the sun god. Monteverdi’s  opera   Poppaea   deals with Nero and his mistress  and wife. Nero’s life is given in Suetonius’s  Lives of the Twelve Caesars.  Nerthus   (Nertha, Hertha) (earth)   In Ger-  manic mythology, mother earth, fertility god -  dess   of   tribes.   The   Roman   writer   Tacitus  in his   Germania   (40) calls her Terra Mater.  Processions in Nerthus’s honor, in which she  was worshipped as goddess of fertility, peace,  and plenty, were elaborate. During the spring,  cows pulled a statue of Nerthus on a cart to  a holy meadow on an island in the sea. The  festival lasted several days. When it was over,  the cart and the statue were part of a cultic  cleansing process. Slaves dedicated to the god -  dess were drowned in her honor. The origin of  the name is unclear, but it is probably related  to Erda (earth).  See also:   erda; frey; njord  Nessus   (young   bird   or   animal)   In   Greek  mythology,   a   centaur,   son   of   Ixion   and   a  cloud, who attempted to rape Deianira, wife  of Heracles. Nessus was killed by Heracles  with an arrow poisoned with the blood of the  Lernean Hydra. Some of the blood spilled  on Nessus’s shirt, which later was given to  Heracles by Deianira in the belief that it would  reclaim Heracles’ love for her. In fact, the shirt  caused Heracles’ death. The expression “shirt  of Nessus” is used to indicate a fatal gift.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book   4)   tells   the  tale, and it is alluded to in Shakespeare’s   All’s  Well   That   Ends   Well   (4.3.283)   and   Anthony  and Cleopatra   (4.12.93). In   The Divine Com -  edy   (Inferno, cantos 12, 13) Vergil points out  Nessus to Dante. Later Nessus is deputed by  Chiron to escort Vergil and Dante and to show  them the ford across the river Phlegethon.  See   also:   centaur; deianira; heracles;  hydra; ixion; ovid  Nestor   (newly speaking)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a wise man, son of Neleus and Chloris,  noted for his eloquence during the Trojan War.  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 1) identifies Nestor as king  of Pylos. His wife was Eurydice, according to  Homer, but other sources name Anaxibia. He  had two daughters and seven sons. According  to late accounts, Nestor lived to be 300 years  old, having been blessed by Apollo, who added  the years to compensate for the god’s murder  of the sons of Niobe and Amphion, Nestor’s  uncles. Nestor also appears in Homer’s   Odyssey  (book   3),   where   he   entertains   Telemachus,  the son of Odysseus. Nestor’s tale is told in  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12). He appears in  Shakespeare’s   Troilus and Cressida.  See also:   apollo;   iliad, the;   niobe; odys -  seus;   odyssey, the;   telemachus  Nestor   711

=== 페이지 729 ===
Net-net   In   Australian   mythology,   small,  hairy,   mischievous   people   who   have   claws  instead of fingernails and toenails.  Neulam-kurrk   In Australian mythology, an  evil female spirit who kidnaps children and eats  them.  Ngalalbal   In Australian mythology, wife of  the gigantic old god Baiame and mother of the  creator god Daramulum.  See also:   baiame  Ngallenyook   In Australian mythology, an  evil spirit who sends sickness. Medicine men  cannot destroy Ngallenyook.  Ngarangs   In   Australian   mythology,   evil  beings who resemble men, with long, flowing  hair and beards. They live at the roots of old  gum trees, coming out at night to capture vic -  tims, whom they eat.  Ngunung-ngunnut   In Australian mythol -  ogy, the bat who created the first woman to  remedy the imbalance in nature in which only  men existed, according to the Wotjobaluk.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla; khadau and mamaldi  Ngunza   In   African   mythology   (Mbundu  of   Angola),   a   hero   who   captured   Death.  Ngunza was one of two brothers. While he  was on a trip away from home, he dreamed  that his brother had died. When he returned,  his mother explained that Death had taken  his brother. So Ngunza set a large trap to  capture Death. When Death was caught, he  begged to be set free, arguing that he was  not responsible for killing people. Death said  that it was invariably the fault of some human  being, often the person himself. Death and  Ngunza set off together to visit the land of  the dead so that Ngunza could see this for  himself.   Ngunza   found   his   brother   living  well, better than he had lived when he was on  earth. Ngunza returned home and was given  the seeds of all of the significant plants that  grow in Angola. In time Death came looking  for him. Ngunza resented the persistent way  in which he was pursued by Death. Finally,  however, Death threw an ax at Ngunza, who  quickly died and turned into a spirit.  Nhangs   In Armenian mythology, evil spirits,  often in the form of mermaids, who lured people  to their death. One Armenian commentary on  the Bible calls Salome, the girl who danced for  the head of St. John the Baptist, more blood -  thirsty than “the Nhangs of the sea,” referring  to the belief that Nhangs, vampirelike, some -  times sucked the blood from their victims.  See also:   mermaid; salome  Nibelungenlied   (lay   of   the   Nibelungs)  Thirteenth-century epic poem of 2,327 stanzas  by an unknown Austrian. The work is divided  into 39 adventures or chapters.  First Adventure.   Three Burgundian princes,  or Nibelungs, live at Worms on the Rhine.  Their sister Kriemhild has a vision in which she  sees two eagles pursue a falcon and tear it to  pieces when it seeks refuge on her breast. Know -  ing her mother is skilled at interpreting dreams,  Kriemhild asks her what the dream means. She  is told that her future husband will be attacked.  Second Adventure.   At Xantan on the Rhine,  King Siegmund and his wife hold a tournament  for the coming of age of their only son, Sieg -  fried, who distinguishes himself greatly at the  feast. His mother lavishes great gifts upon him.  Third Adventure.   Siegfried hears of Kriem -  hild’s beauty and goes to woo her, taking with  him only 11 men. He arrives at Worms. Hagen,  a cousin of King Gunther, Kriemhild’s brother,  tells the king that Siegfried once killed a dragon  and now is the owner of the Nibelungen hoard  (the dwarfs’ gold). The hoard had belonged to  two brothers, who asked Siegfried to divide  it between them. He undertook the task in  exchange for a sword, Balmung, which lay on  top of the heap of gold. But no sooner had he  712   Net-net

=== 페이지 730 ===
made the division than the brothers killed one  another, leaving Siegfried with the treasure.  On   hearing   that   Siegfried   has   come   to  challenge Gunther to a duel, the Burgundians  are very upset. They persuade Siegfried to  disarm and stay as a guest for a year. Kriemhild  watches Siegfried from a window and falls in  love with him.  Fourth Adventure.   Siegfried aids Gunther  by defeating the kings of Saxony and Den -  mark. He defeats the enemy with only 1,000  men against their 4,000. When the messenger  comes to announce Siegfried’s victory, Kriem -  hild flushes with pleasure.  Fifth Adventure.   A tournament is held at  Worms in honor of the victory. Siegfried and  Kriemhild meet face to face and fall in love. Sieg -  fried then asks Gunther for Kriemhild’s hand.  Sixth Adventure.   Gunther bargains with Sieg -  fried, asking that before he claims Kriemhild he  should go with Gunther to Isenland and help him  win Brunhild. Gunther needs Siegfried’s help in  wooing because Brunhild has vowed to marry  only a man who can throw a spear and a stone  farther than she can and surpass her in jumping.  Siegfried, failing to dissuade Gunther, decides to  accompany him on his quest and suggests that  Hagen and another knight join them. Kriemhild  provides them with handmade garments, and  they reach Isenland 12 days later. As their ship  nears the land, Siegfried asks his companions to  tell everyone that he is Gunther’s vassal, and he  behaves as if that were his true station.  Seventh Adventure.   Brunhild sees the ship  arriving and believes Siegfried, who had come  to her realm once before, has come to woo her.  Siegfried guides Gunther and his men through  a ring of fire to reach Brunhild’s castle. When  she realizes that it is Gunther who wishes to  win her, she warns him that if he fails to hurl  the spear and stone farther than she, he and his  men must die. When Gunther sees Brunhild’s  spear, which took 12 men to lift, he loses heart.  Siegfried whispers in his ear not to fear but to go  through the motions. Siegfried, concealed by his  Tarnkappe, a cloak of invisibility, will accomplish  the tasks. Siegfried does so, and Gunther wins  Brunhild, though she is upset by the outcome.  Eighth Adventure.   Brunhild summons to her  castle a large number of warriors in the hope  of not having to marry Gunther. Siegfried sails  off to the land of the Nibelungs, forces them to  recognize him as their lord, and brings 1,000  back with him to Isenland. When Brunhild sees  his force she does not resist.  Ninth Adventure.   The bride, escorted by  all of the men, sails across the sea and up the  Rhine. As they near Burgundy, Gunther decides  to send word of their arrival. He persuades  Siegfried to act as his messenger, assuring him  that he will earn Kriemhild’s gratitude.  Tenth Adventure.   Siegfried marries Kriem -  hild, and the two couples sit side by side at an  evening meal. When Gunther goes to their  bedroom with Brunhild, she picks him up,  hangs him on a peg, and leaves him there all  night, taking him down in the morning. The  next day all notice that Siegfried is radiant but  Gunther is not at all happy. Gunther then tells  Siegfried what happened. Siegfried says he will  help by putting on his magic cloud cloak in the  evening and teaching Brunhild how to treat her  husband. That night Siegfried, unseen, follows  Gunther and Brunhild into their room. When  the lights are put out, he wrestles with Brun -  hild   until   she   acknowledges   herself   beaten.  She believes she is yielding to Gunther, but it  is Siegfried who snatches her girdle and ring,  before leaving Gunther alone with her. Once  Brunhild has submitted to a man, she loses  all of her miraculous power. Siegfried returns  Siegfried wrestles with Brunhild  Nibelungenlied   713

=== 페이지 731 ===
to Kriemhild, tells her all that happened, and  gives her the girdle and ring.  Eleventh   Adventure.   Siegfried   returns   to  Xantan with Kriemhild, and his parents relin -  quish the throne to them. They have a son.  Twelfth Adventure.   Ten years pass, and Brun -  hild asks Gunther why Siegfried and Kriemhild  have not visited them. Gunther invites the  couple to visit.  Thirteenth Adventure.   Siegfried and Kriem -  hild arrive with Siegmund, Siegfried’s father. A  feast is held, at which Brunhild curtly informs  Kriemhild that Siegfried can scarcely be as  great as Kriemhild pretends, since he is one of  Gunther’s vassals.  Fourteenth Adventure.   Kriemhild denies this.  Brunhild insists and declares she will prove her  point at church when the two attend Mass. Both  women, angry, arrive simultaneously at Mass  escorted by imposing trains. Seeing Kriemhild  make a motion to enter first, Brunhild bids  her pause. The two get into a verbal duel. In  the heat of the argument Kriemhild insinuates  that Brunhild granted Siegfried sexual favors.  She then shows her the girdle and ring. The  men enter; Siegfried denies taking advantage of  Brunhild. Brunhild refuses to listen, and Gun -  ther refuses to avenge her. She finally persuades  Hagen, her kinsman, to take up her quarrel.  Believing Brunhild had been wronged by Sieg -  fried, Hagen urges Gunther to kill Siegfried.  Fifteenth Adventure.   Hagen devises a plan  to kill Siegfried. He discovers that Siegfried  is invulnerable, having bathed in the blood of  the dragon Fafnir, except for one spot between  his shoulders, where a linden leaf, sticking fast,  prevented the blood from touching. Hagen tells  Kriemhild to embroider a cross on her husband’s  garment over the spot to protect Siegfried. They  then go off hunting in the Odenwald.  Sixteenth   Adventure.   The   three,   Gunther,  Hagen, and Siegfried, race to a neighboring  spring to drink. When Siegfried stoops over the  spring to drink, Hagen runs a spear through the  mark of the cross. Mortally wounded, Siegfried  turns, grasps his shield, and hurls it at Hagen  with such force that he dashes it to pieces. As he  dies, he asks Gunther to take care of Kriemhild.  Seventeenth   Adventure.   The   funeral   train  arrives at Worms. Hagen tells the bearers to lay  Siegfried’s body at Kriemhild’s door. Kriemhild  comes out in the morning to attend mass and  falls over the body. Realizing it is her husband,  she faints. The Nibelung knights arrive to carry  the body to the minster, where Kriemhild insists  that all those who took part in the hunt shall file  past the body. It was believed that a dead man’s  wounds would bleed whenever his murderer  drew near. Siegfried’s wounds drop blood at  Hagen’s touch. Kriemhild publicly denounces  him as the murderer, but he says he did his duty.  Eighteenth Adventure.   Siegmund, the father  of Siegfried, asks that Kriemhild come home to  Xantan with him. Throughout it all, Brunhild  shows no pity.  Nineteenth   Adventure.   Three   years   pass  before Hagen suggests to Gunther that Kriem -  hild send for the Nibelung hoard, which was  given her in marriage. Kriemhild consents, and  the treasure arrives. It is so large that Hagen  fears it will cause Kriemhild to become too  independent, so he has it buried and tells no  one its location but his masters.  Twentieth Adventure.   Kriemhild is wooed  by Rudiger for Etzel, king of Hungary. She  accepts   when   Rudiger   tells   her   Etzel   will  aid her in avenging Siegfried’s death. Then,  escorted by her faithful Ekkewart and carrying  off with her the small portion of the Nibelun -  gen treasure that still remains to her, she starts  off for Hungary.  Twenty-first Adventure.   Kriemhild proceeds  on her way and is met on all sides by ovations  of her future subjects.  Twenty-second Adventure.   Kriemhild meets  Etzel   and   other   heroes,   such   as   Dietrich  of Bern. Under his escort they proceed to  Vienna for the marriage festivities, which last  17 days.  Twenty-third   Adventure.   Seven   years   pass.  Kriemhild has a son by Etzel, but she still grieves  for Siegfried. One day she suggests that King  714   Nibelungenlied

=== 페이지 732 ===
Etzel invite her kinsmen to Hungary. When he  consents, she gives special instructions to make  sure that Hagen accompanies her brothers.  Twenty-fourth Adventure.   Hagen is invited and  comes fully armed, with an escort of 1,000 men.  Twenty-fifth   Adventure.   The   Burgundians  leave Brunhild and her son in the care of a  steward and set out. As they are now the pos -  sessors of the Nibelung hoard, the poem terms  them Nibelungs in the remainder of the work.  Under   the   guidance   of   Hagen,   who   alone  knows the way, the party reaches the banks of  the Danube. They find no vessels to ferry them  across, so Hagen asks them to wait until he can  provide means of transportation.  Walking   down   to   the   river,   he   surprises  three swan maidens bathing. He captures their  garments and forces them to tell the future.  Although one promises him sexual pleasures, her  companions, having recovered their garments,  warn Hagen that none of his party but a priest  will return safely to Burgundy. They inform him  that he can secure a boat by telling the ferryman  on the opposite bank that his (Hagen’s) name is  Amalung. Hagen induces the ferryman to cross  the river and springs into his boat before the  man, discovering the trick, attacks him with his  oar. Forced to defend himself, Hagen kills the  man. He then proceeds to convey relays of the  Burgundian army across the river. Casting off  for the last crossing, Hagen notices the priest on  board and, wishing to prove the swan maidens  wrong, casts the cleric overboard. When the  priest swims back to shore, Hagen realizes that  none of the rest will return.  Twenty-sixth   Adventure.   The   Burgundians  continue their journey, and though warned by  Ekkewart, they go on to visit Bishop Pilgrin  and Rudiger.  Twenty-seventh Adventure.   At Hagen’s sug -  gestion a marriage is arranged between Giseler,  the youngest Burgundian prince, and Rudiger’s  daughter. Rudiger then guides the Burgundians  to Etzel’s court, where Kriemhild rejoices.  Twenty-eighth Adventure.   Kriemhild meets  the guests and asks Hagen for her gold. He says  it will stay at the bottom of the Rhine until the  Last Judgment. Hagen’s men spend the next  three days armed, fearing what is to come.  Twenty-ninth Adventure.   Kriemhild asks her  men to kill Hagen. She points him out and  accuses him, but they are fearful of him and  flee. Hagen then joins Etzel, who is portrayed  as an old, inoffensive man.  Thirtieth Adventure.   A night attack is made  on Hagen, but again he frightens the Hungar -  ians by his menacing glance.  Thirty-first Adventure.   A tournament is held,  at which the Huns and Burgundians argue. To  calm them, Etzel invites the Burgundians to a  banquet. They arrive fully armed.  Thirty-second Adventure.   While the banquet  is on, the Huns attack the Burgundians, who  are outside.  Thirty-third   Adventure.   Hagen,   hearing  what has happened outside the banquet hall,  takes out his sword and cuts off the head of  Etzel and Kriemhild’s child, which bounces  into Kriemhild’s lap. The king and queen are  saved by Dietrich of Bern.  Thirty-fourth Adventure.   The Burgundians  pause after the slaughter but are again attacked  by the Huns. Kriemhild cries that she will  reward with gold anyone who will bring her  Hagen’s head.  Thirty-fifth Adventure.   Attempts are made to  kill Hagen, but all fail.  Thirty-sixth   Adventure.   Kriemhild   orders  the hall where the Burgundians are holding  out to be set afire. It is built of stone, and they  quench the fire with the blood of the dead and  even drink the blood.  Thirty-seventh Adventure.   Rudiger, in obedi -  ence to Kriemhild, enters the hall. Gernot, one  of Kriemhild’s brothers, and Rudiger slay each  other.  Thirty-eighth Adventure.   More battle ensues,  and of the Burgundians only Hagen and Gun -  ther remain alive.  Thirty-ninth Adventure.   Dietrich enters the  hall and attacks Hagen. He captures him and  brings him to Kriemhild.  Nibelungenlied   715

=== 페이지 733 ===
“Fair and noble Kriemhild,” thus Sir  Dietrich spake,  “Spare this captive warrior who full  amends will make  For all his past transgressions; him here  in bonds you see;  Revenge not on the fetter’d th’offences of  the free.”  While Dietrich is securing Gunther, Kriem -  hild, left alone with Hagen, again demands her  treasures. Hagen answers that, having promised  never to reveal its hiding place as long as his  lords live, he cannot reveal the secret to her.  Kriemhild, who now is insane, orders the death  of her brother Gunther. She carries his head to  Hagen as proof that there is no reason to keep  the secret. Hagen still will not tell her, so she  cuts off his head with Siegfried’s sword. Neither  Etzel nor the hero Hildebrand is quick enough  to stop Kriemhild when her fierceness over -  powers them. Hildebrand then kills Kriemhild.  This epic was very popular with German  Romantic poets and dramatists. In 1810 Fried -  rich Heinrich Karl La Motte-Fouqué wrote a  Nibelungen trilogy titled   The Hero of the North.  It consisted of   Sigurd the Dragon Slayer,   Sigurd’s  Revenge,   and   Aslauga.   Ernst Raupach wrote a five-  act drama with a prologue called   The Nibelungen  Hoard,   and Emanuel Geibel’s drama   Brunhild  dealt with the love of Brunhild and Siegfried.  Christian Friedrich Hebbel’s trilogy   The Nibe -  lungen   was followed by   Sigfrid and Chriemhilde   by  Wegener and later by   Sigfrid Sage,   the first part  of Wilhelm Jordan’s epic poem entitled   Die Nibe -  lunge ; the second part,   Hildebrant’s Homecoming,  appeared in 1874. Richard Wagner’s great   Der  Ring des Nibelungen,   although using many of the  names from the   Nibelungenlied,   actually follows  the plot of the   Volsunga Saga.  See also:   balmung; brynhild; dietrich of  bern; etzel; nibelungs;   ring des nibelungen,  der;   tarnkappe;   volsunga saga  Nibelungs   In Norse mythology, the dwarfs  or elves who possessed a hoard of gold and  lived in the land of mist (Nebel). In the Norse  Volsunga Saga   Nibelung is the son of Hogni  and grandson of Giuki. In later Norse myth  the name Nibelungs is used for the followers  of Sigurd (Siegfried), since he possessed the  gold ring crafted by the dwarfs. It is also used  in the Germanic epic   Nibelungenlied   for the  Burgundians under King Gunther. In   Der Ring  des Nibelungen   Richard Wagner uses   Nibelungs  for   the   gnomes,   dwarfs,   or   elves,   such   as  Alberich and Mime. They are portrayed in  Arthur   Rackham’s   illustrations   for   Wagner’s  Ring Cycle.  See also:   nibelungenlied; ring des nibe -  lungen, der;   siegfried; sigurd  Nicholas,   St.   (victory   people,   prevailing  among the people)   Died 350. In Christian  legend, bishop of Myra; as Santa Claus, patron  saint of children, patron of bankers, captives,  pawnbrokers, Russia, Aberdeen, Greek fisher -  men, and sailors. Feast, 6 December.  According to legend, Nicholas was born of  Christian parents in their old age. As soon as  he was born he arose in his bath and joined his  hands, praising God that he had been brought  into the world. From that day on he would  only nurse at his mother’s breast on Wednes -  days and Fridays. When he was still young,  his parents died and left all of their wealth to  Nicholas. The saint devised means to get rid of  the money.   The Golden Legend,   a collection of  saints’ lives written in the 13th century by Jaco -  bus de Voragine, tells how the saint gave gold  to save three girls who would have to become  whores if they did not have doweries.  After this episode, the see of the bishop of  Myra was vacant, and the Church assembled  to choose a successor. One bishop had a dream  that the first man who should come through  the church doors should be consecrated bishop.  Nicholas walked through the doors and was  therefore chosen.  St. Nicholas’s role as patron of sailors is  related to the legend that when a ship on  the way to the Holy Land was about to be  716   Nibelungs

=== 페이지 734 ===
destroyed, the sailors called on St. Nicholas,  who appeared to them and stilled the storm.  He was said to have been at the Council of  Nicea (325), where he struck Arius on the jaw.  At the Reformation his feast day was abol -  ished in many Protestant countries, but when  the Dutch Protestants came to establish the  colony of New Amsterdam they still celebrated  the old “visit of St. Nicholas” the night before  6   December.   When   the   English   took   over  New Amsterdam and renamed it New York,  the custom stayed, and the visitor was called  Sinter Klaas. Since he appeared as a bishop  and many English Protestants disliked the idea  of a bishop, St. Nicholas was stripped of his  ecclesiastical robes and turned into a figure  that combined the old saint with that of the  Germanic god Thor. The feast day was then  moved to Christmas. The final development of  the legend was the poem   A Visit from St. Nicho -  las   by Clement Clarke Moore, which became  the standard version of the legend.  St. Nicholas was removed from the calen -  dar of saints of the Roman Catholic Church  in 1969.  See also:   golden legend, the;   thor  Nicodemus   (conqueror of the people)   (First  century)   In the Bible, N.T., a Pharisee and  member of the Sanhedrin, or Jewish govern -  ing body, who followed Jesus but in secret.  Nicodemus assisted at the burial of Jesus and  brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes to anoint  Jesus’ body (John 19:39). In paintings of the  Eastern Church he is often shown in portrayals  of the descent from the cross and the entomb -  ment of Christ. In some paintings he is shown  bending down, extracting one or more nails  from Jesus’ feet and placing them in a basket,  the so-called Basket of Nicodemus.  Nidaba   In   Near   Eastern   mythology   (Su-  merian), grain goddess who brought the arts of  civilization to humankind.  Nidhogg   (Nithogg, Niohoggr) (hateful)   In  Norse mythology, the dragon in Nifelheim  at   the   foot   of   the   cosmic   tree,   Yggdrasill;  he gnaws at its roots. The squirrel Ratatosk  “runs up and down the ash,” according to the  Prose Edda,   “and seeks to cause strife between  the eagle and Nidhogg.” In some accounts  Nidhogg is described as a flying dragon that  eats corpses.  See also:   nifelheim;   prose edda;   ratatosk;  yggdrasill  Nidra   (sleep)   In Hindu mythology, a per -  sonification of sleep, sometimes said to be a  female form of the god Brahma. Other accounts  say Nidra was produced at the Churning of the  Ocean, when the gods and demons sought the  Amrita, or water of life.  See also:   amrita; brahma; churning of  the ocean  St. Nicholas   (Albrecht Dürer)  Nidra   717

=== 페이지 735 ===
Nifelheim   (world of fog)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, the ancient underworld, the land of dark,  cold, and mist; distinguished from Hel, the  land of the dead. Odin cast Hel into Nifelheim,  where she had her domain. In the midst of  Nifelheim was Hvergelmir (bubbling caldron),  the   fountain   from   which   and   to   which   all  waters   found   their   way.   From   Hvergelmir  flowed the river Elivagar (rivers whipped by  passing showers). Nifelheim was located at the  foot of the world tree, Yggdrasill, and was the  home of Nidhogg the dragon and of the Fenrir  wolf. Nifelheim appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   elivagar; fenrir; hel; nidhogg;  yggdrasill;   prose edda  nightingale   A small migratory thrush noted  for its song, which is a warning to all other  male nightingales to stay out of the singer’s  territory, as well as being an invitation to the  females to join the male. In Greek mythology  Philomila was transformed into a nightingale.  The nightingale is often associated with death,  as in Keats’s “Ode to a Nightingale.” Hans  Christian Andersen’s tale “The Nightingale”  has the bird bargain with death to save the  Chinese emperor’s life. Stravinsky’s opera   The  Nightingale   is based on Andersen’s tale.  See also:   philomila  Nihongi   ( Nihonshoki )   (Chronicles   of   Japan)  Japanese Shinto book completed in 720. It  is longer than the earlier   Kojiki,   the original  authoritative   work   on   Japanese   Shinto,   but  contains many of the same myths, often giv -  ing variant accounts. Many of the gods appear  under   different   names   or   are   rendered   in  Chinese characters. The   Nihongi   traces myth,  legend, and history up to 697.  See also:   kojiki  Nijuhachi Bushu   General term in Japanese  mythology   for   the   28   gods   who   symbol -  ize the constellations. The group is gener -  ally made up of the following: Basosennin,  Daibenzaiten,   Naraen,   Misshakukongo,  Daibonten, Teishakuten, Makeshura, Tohoten,  Konshikikujaku,   Zochoten,   Bishamon-ten,  Mawaraten, Mansenshao, Shimmoten, Gobujo,  Nadaryu-o,   Karura-o,   Kinnara-o,   Magora-  o, Ashira-o, Konda-o, Kendatsuba, Shakara-  o,   Kompira-o,   Mansen-o,   Sanshi-taisho,  Hibakara-o.  Nike   (victory)   In Greek mythology, winged  goddess   of   victory   called   Victoria   by   the  Romans. In Hesiod’s   Theogony   (383) Nike is  said to be the daughter of the Titan Pallas  and Styx and sister of Zelos (eager rivalry),  Kratos (strength), and Bia (force). There are  numerous references to Nike in Greek lit -  erature because she was closely associated with  Athena. Sometimes Athena was worshipped as  Athena Nike. Whereas Athena was the god -  dess of wisdom, Nike was the embodiment of  victory in athletic and musical contests, as well  as in battle. In one ancient Greek work, the  Bacchylides   Fragment XI,   her role is clearly  stated: “Nike, dispenser of sweet gifts, stand -  ing beside Zeus on Olympus, bright with gold,  allots to mortals and the immortals the prize of  valor.” The most famous statue of the goddess  is the Nike of Samothrace, now in the Louvre.  Roman art often portrayed the goddess as the  symbol of victory over death, and these statues  may have influenced early Christian art.  See   also:   athena; hesiod; pallas; styx;  titans; victoria; zeus  Nikitch, Dobrynya   In Russian history and  folklore a brave and fierce warrior, second only  to Ilya Muromets. He was also a good singer and  skillful chess player. He defeats the dragon Zmei  Gorynytch, but he unwisely spares the creature  from death. The dragon then abducts Princess  Zabava, and Dobrynya sets out to rescue her  and kill the dragon. His quest takes him down  into the underworld before he finds and kills  Zmei and his female companion. One   bylina  called “Dobrynya and Aloisha” is clearly based  on the Odysseus and Penelope story. When  Dobrynya departs to slay the dragon, he tells  718   Nifelheim

=== 페이지 736 ===
his wife of only one day that he will be gone for  seven years. He asks her to wait for him. When  her husband does not return after more than  seven years, his wife is forced to make plans to  marry Aloisha Popovich. On the wedding day  Dobrynya returns, but in disguise, and reveals  himself at the wedding by dropping his ring, into  the wedding cup. His wife recognizes the ring,  and the wedding is halted. Other   bylyni   tell of  his fights with the dragon Gornynych and of his  search for a bride for Prince Vladimir. According  to legend, he is finally beaten by a giant female  warrior, but in history he was killed fighting the  Tatars at the battle of Kalka in 1224.  See   also:   aliosha   popovich;   bylyna;  dragon; ilya muromets  Nikkal   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Canaanite), goddess of the fruits of the earth;  daughter of Hiribi, god of summer; and wife of  Yarikh, the moon god. Her marriage to Yarikh  is celebrated in an ancient poem in which the  Kathirat, wise goddesses, act to settle the mar -  riage affair, and Hiribi acts as an intermediary  for the bridal payment.  Nine Worlds   In Norse mythology, the worlds  that made up the cosmos, watched over by Odin.  They are Asgard, the home of the Aesir gods;  Vanaheim, the home of the Vanir gods; Midgard,  the home of humankind; Alfheim, the home of  the light dwarfs or elves; Jotunheim, the home of  giants; Svartalfaheim, the home of the dark elves;  Nifelheim, the land of dark, cold, and mist; the  ninth is unknown, though some accounts say it is  Nithavellir, the land of the dwarfs.  See   also:   alfheim; asgard; jotunheim;  midgard; nifelheim  Nine Worthies, The   In medieval European  folk belief, a series of nine ideal types of people,  taken from the Bible, the Greek and Roman  world, and the Middle Ages. The nine worthies  represent a numerical configuration drawing  on the mystery of the number three and its  square. They are usually listed as three Jews,  Joshua,   David,   Judas   Maccabaeus,   all   from  the   Bible;   three   pagans,   Hector,   Alexander  the Great, and Julius Caesar from the Greek  and Roman world; and three Christians, King  Arthur, Charlemagne, and Godfrey of Bouillon  from the Middle Ages.  The most extensive literary treatment in  English literature is found in   Morte Arthure   (c.  1360). They are portrayed on a panel piece at the  Chateau Coucy in France, in the Hansa Saal in  the cathedral in Cologne, in the Schöner Brun -  nen in Nürnberg in Germany, and in tapestries  in the Cloisters Museum in New York City.  See also:   arthur  Ninib   (Nerig,   Nineb,   Nin-ip,   Nirig)   In  Near Eastern mythology (Babylonian), god of  the summer sun who opposes Marduk, the hero  god and god of the spring sun and vegetation.  See also:   marduk  Ninurta   (Ningirsu, Nimurta, Nimurash)   In  Near Eastern mythology (Sumero-Akkadian),  war god and patron of hunting, son of Enlil  or Bel and Innini. He was called “the arrow,  the mighty hero.” Some scholars believe that  Nimrod in the Old Testament (Gen. 10:9) is a  variant for Ninurta. Ninurta’s symbol was an  eagle with outstretched wings.  See also:   bel  Ni-o   (kings   of   compassion)   In   Japanese  Buddhist mythology, fierce warrior gods at the  gates of temples, whose duty is to prevent evil  spirits from entering. They stem from Hindu  mythology, being representations of the gods  Indra and Brahma.  See also:   brahma; indra  Niobe   (snowy)   In Greek mythology, daughter  of Tantalus and Dione; wife of Amphion; mother  of 10 sons and 10 daughters (some accounts  say six or seven). Niobe taunted Leto, mother  of Apollo and Artemis, for having only two  children. As punishment all of Niobe’s children  except Chloris, wife of Neleus and mother of  Niobe   719

=== 페이지 737 ===
Nestor, were killed by Apollo and Artemis. The  Olympians buried the children, and Niobe was  transformed into stone, still dripping tears on  Mount Sipylus in Lydia. Niobe’s myth appears in  Homer’s   Iliad   (book 24), Hesiod’s   Theogony,   and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6). In Dante’s   Divine  Comedy   (Purgatory,   canto   12)   Niobe   figures  among the examples of defeated Pride, one of the  Seven Deadly Sins in Christianity. Shakespeare’s  Hamlet   has the hero say of his mother, “Like  Niobe, all tears,” referring to Gertrude’s tears  over her dead husband. Byron’s   Childe Harold’s  Pilgrimage   calls Rome “the Niobe of Nations.”  Ancient Greek and Roman statues often portray  Niobe’s vain attempt to save her children from  the deities’ wrath. David, the French classical  artist, painted the death of the children.  See also:   apollo; artemis; hesiod;   iliad,  the;   nestor; ovid  Nirvana   (gone   out   [as   a   flame],   extinction  [of passion], cooled, rolled up or away, blow -  ing away or extinguishing)   In Buddhism, the  state of enlightenment and liberation, often  confused by some Western writers with a sort  of Christianlike heaven. D. T. Suzuki writes in  his study   Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism   that  Nirvana “is the annihilation of the notion of  ego-substance and of all desire that arises from  this erroneous conception. But this represents  the negative side of the doctrine, and its posi -  tive side consists in universal love or sympathy  ( karuna ) for all beings. These two aspects of  Nirvana (i.e., negatively, the destruction of evil  passions, and positively, the practice of sym -  pathy) are complementary to each other; and  when we have one we have the other.”  In Jain mythology Nirvana is the place of lib -  erated souls at “the ceiling of the universe where  they live in unconscious, eternal bliss.” Nirvana  is described negatively as the destruction of  the passions and positively as the attainment  of selfless bliss. Death after Nirvana is called  parinirvana (final Nirvana) and is not followed  by rebirth. In Pali it is called Nibbana. The  chief characteristic of existence is suffering, and  therefore Nirvana is the cessation of suffering.  By practicing self-discipline an individual can  put an end to passion and craving. When these  are extinguished, no more karma is generated  and there is no further rebirth. When rebirth  stops, an individual has realized Nirvana.  Nithavellir   (the dark fields)   In Norse myth-  ology, the home of the dwarfs, according to  some accounts. Some scholars believe the term  should be Nitafjoll (the dark crags).  See also:   alfheim; nine worlds  Nitten   In Japanese Buddhist mythology, sun  goddess, derived from the Hindu god Surya.  She is portrayed holding a lotus, on the calyx of  which reposes a sphere, symbol of the sun. She is  one of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese Buddhist gods  and goddesses adopted from Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o; surya Niobe  720   Nirvana

=== 페이지 738 ===
Nivata-Kavachas   In Hindu mythology, sea  giants “clothed in impenetrable armor” who  lived in the depths of the sea. According to the  epic poem   The Mahabharata,   there were some  30 million of them.  See also:   mahabharata, the  nixie   (nix,   nixe)   In   Germanic   folklore,   a  watery being who is often unfriendly to humans,  causing them to drown. They are capable of  assuming various forms, and they sometimes  marry humans. They are usually depicted as  marine creatures, half woman and half fish, and  are allied to the Sirens of classical antiquity. In  some parts of Germany it is considered bad luck  to save a drowning person because the person  has been fated as an offering to the nixies, who  must have at least one human sacrifice per year.  See also:   melusina; mermaid; sirens  Njinyi   (he   who   is   everywhere)   In   African  mythology (Bamum of Cameroon), creator god  who allowed death to take human life. Njinyi  created humans healthy and strong but discov -  ered that in time they died. So he went to Death  and asked him if he were responsible for killing  people. Death said people really wanted to die,  and he would prove it to Njinyi. They went to  a roadside, and Njinyi hid behind a tree while  Death sat underneath it. Soon an old slave passed  by, mumbling to himself, “I wish I had never  been born. It’s better to be dead.” No sooner had  the words left his mouth than he fell down dead.  Next came an old woman, complaining of her  sad lot and wishing she were dead. As soon as she  uttered the words, she fell down dead. “Look,”  said Death to Njinyi, “people want to die. They  call me.” So Njinyi left, sad that humankind  choose death instead of life.  Njord   (Niord, Njordhr) (humid)   In Norse  mythology, one of the Vanir; god of winds, sea,  fire, and wealth; husband of his sister Nerthus;  father of Frey and Freyja. When Njord went to  Asgard, he married Skadi, but she preferred liv -  ing in her father’s home Thrymheim, and Njord  loved to reside at his home, Noatun (ships’  heaven). According to the   Prose Edda,   “They  at last agreed that they should pass together  nine nights in Thrymheim, and then three in  Noatun.” The   Prose Edda   says that Njord “is so  wealthy that he can give possessions and trea -  sures to those who call on him for them.” The  kenning for a sponge is “Njord’s glove.”  See also:   frey; freyja; iduna; kenning;  skadi  N ¯ o   (Noh)   Stylized   Japanese   drama,   using  masks, that had its beginnings in the 14th  century.  Many N ¯ o   plays are Buddhist on Shinto  texts, which contain numerous myths and leg -  ends, though some are based on secular works,  such as the   Tales of the Heike Clan.   One of the  most famous N ¯ o plays is   Aoi-no-ue   by Zeami  Motokiyo, written in the 14th century, about a  “revengeful ghost.” In it Lady Aoi is freed from  a sinister incubus, while the ghost of Princess  N¯ o mask  N ¯ o   721

=== 페이지 739 ===
Rokujo, her dead rival in love for Prince Genji,  is delivered from the evil spirit haunting her  and allowed to enter into the Buddhist paradise.  Another play by Zeami Motokiyo,   Takasago,  tells of two pine trees inhabited by gods.  Sotoba Kimachi   (Komachi and the Grave -  stone)   by   Kan’nami   Kiyotsugo   (1333–1384)  tells of an old woman who sits on a   stupa,   a  sacred symbol of Buddha. She is accused by  a Buddhist priest of sacrilege but tells him all  things are sacred, both she and the old   stupa.  Suddenly she goes insane, seeing her old lover,  but recovers in time to know she will die and  enter the Buddhist paradise.  Noah   (rest)   In the Bible, O.T. (Gen. 6–9),  the son of Lamech; a tenth-generation descen -  dant of Adam, who saved himself and his family  during the Great Flood. God entrusted Noah  with the construction of an ark or houseboat.  Noah   took   his   family   and   various   animals  aboard as God sent the floods to destroy all life.  When the waters finally began to subside, the  ark rested on Mount Ararat, and Noah sent a  raven and a dove to determine the degree the  waters had receded. The dove returned with  a bit of an olive branch, which showed that  the waters had abated. God directed Noah to  disembark with everything in the ark. Noah  Noah Builds the Ark   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  722   Noah

=== 페이지 740 ===
erected an altar and made sacrifice, and God  blessed him and his sons. Noah was also the  first to make wine and is often portrayed as  drunken. Various scenes from his life popular  with artists are the building of the ark, the  Flood, the sacrifice of Noah, and the drunken -  ness of Noah. Benjamin Britten’s cantata   Noyes  Fludde   is based on a medieval English play. In  Islam Noah is called Nuh, and his story is told  in the Koran (sura 2).  Sailors   refer   to   a   white   band   of   clouds  shaped something like the hull of a ship as  “Noah’s Ark.” If the clouds go from east to  west, sailors expect dry weather; if they go from  north to south, sailors expect wet weather.  See also:   adam and eve; lamech; raven  No-no-Kami   In Japanese mythology, god  of the fields and plant life in general.  Normalform   This   German   term   is   used  to suggest what an item of folklore, such as a  myth, a legend, or a folktale,   should   be. Scholars  have long thought of what a tale must have been  at some point in the past, at its time of origin,  and many have assumed monogenesis. Often,  however,   this   Normalform   derives   from   the  version that one hears first. The   Normalform  is the basis for configuring tale types into sets  and subsets.  See   also:   indo-european   hypothesis;  monogenesis and polygenesis; tale type  Norns   (pronouncers)   In Norse mythology,  the fates, women who determine the fate of each  person. Three—Urd (past), Verdandi (present),  and Skuld (future)—live near a fountain under  the   massive   ash   Yggdrasill,   the   world   tree.  “These maidens fix the lifetime of all men,”  according to the   Prose Edda.   “But there are,  indeed, many other Norns, for, when a man  is born, there is a Norn to determine his fate.  Some are known to be of heavenly origin, but  others belong to the races of elves and dwarfs.”  They appear in the   Poetic Edda,   the   Prose Edda,  and Richard Wagner’s   Götterdämmerung,   the  last music drama of   Der Ring des Nibelungen.  They also appear in Thomas Gray’s poem   The  Fatal Sisters: An Ode.   In Germanic folklore they  appear as fairy godmothers or three spinners.  See also:   poetic edda; prose edda; ring  des nibelungen, der;   skuld; urd; verdandi;  yggdrasill  Nostradamus,   Michel   (1503–1566)   A  French astrologer who published an annual  Almanack.   He   is   still   known   today   for   his  prophecies   published   in   1555   in   Centuries.  In 1781 his work was banned by the pope,  but it is still often cited when disaster strikes.  In 2001, when the World Trade Center was  destroyed, frequent references to prophesies  by Nostradamus appeared through electronic  media, such as:  In the City of God there will be a great  thunder,  Two brothers torn apart by Chaos, while  the fortress endures, the great leader  will succumb,  The third big war will begin when the big  city is burning. — Nostradamus 1654  The quatrain is not to be found in his  published works but is a hoax. Nostradamus’s  vague and ambiguous language is so obscure  that many people continue to find meaning in  his prophecies.  Nott   (night)   In Norse mythology, a giantess  whose first husband was Naglfar and second  husband was Annar, a dwarf. She became the  mother of Jord (the earth) and Dagr (day) by  her second husband. Nott’s horse was Hrimfaxi  (frostmaned). Dagr and Nott had a carriage  that went around the earth once a day.  See also:   dagr; jord; naglfar; skinfaxi  Nox   (night)   Nyx in Greek, the Latin Nox in  Greek and Roman mythology was daughter of  Chaos and Darkness; wife of her brother Erebus  (the covered pot, often identified with Hades)  Nox   723

=== 페이지 741 ===
whose children were the three Fates, Thanatos,  Sleep, Dreams, Care, Momus, the Hesperides,  Nemesis, Discord, Fraud, Eris, and others. Nox  is mentioned in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6), which  deals with Aeneas’s visit to the underworld. Nox  is also mentioned in Hesiod’s   Theogony.  See also:   aeneid, the;   hades; hesiod; hes -  perides; nemesis; thanatos  Nudd   (silver hand)   In Celtic mythology, a  sea god and king of the Tuatha de Danann  (people of the goddess Danu). Nudd lost one  hand in battle, thus losing his throne because  a maimed king could not rule. His hand was  replaced   by   a   silver   artificial   one,   thereby  regaining his throne for him and earning him  the title Argetlam (the silver handed). Some  scholars   believe   that   Ludd,   the   British   sea  god, is an equivalent of Nudd, who also lost  one hand, had it replaced by a silver artificial  one, and was called Llawereint (silver handed).  Ludd’s temple in London was located near St.  Paul’s Cathedral, and Ludgate Hill is named  after the god. Sometimes Ludd was known as  Nudd in Britain.  See also:   ludd; tuatha de danann  Nuga   (Nugu, Nugi)   In Melanesian mythol -  ogy, the crocodile father of the Kiwaians. Nuga  was originally carved from wood by a man  named Ipila. While carving a wooden human  figure, Ipila put some sago milk on its face,  and the figure came to life. The first sound it  made was that of a crocodile. Nuga asked Ipila  to make three other men for him so that he  would not be lonely. The men he made wanted  more than sago for food, so they began killing  animals. Soon they became half crocodile, and  no one wanted anything to do with the croco -  dile men. They tried to reproduce, but only  male children were born to them. From these  poor beings descended those who claim the  crocodile as ancestor. Ipila was displeased with  his creations and forced Nuga to hold the earth  on his shoulders forever.  See also:   crocodile  Nules-murt   In Finno-Ugric folklore, a for -  est spirit appearing in human form with one eye.  Nules-murt can lengthen and shorten his body  at will, though he usually prefers to be as tall as a  tree. He lives in the forest with his vast treasures  of gold, silver, and cattle. Offerings are made to  him by the people. Other spirits of the forest are  Pales-murt (half man), who has half the body  of a man; Yskal-pydo-murt (cow-footed man),  an evil spirit; Surali, a hairy spirit; Cheremiss  Kozla-ia, another forest spirit; and Ovda, an evil  forest spirit who lives in the chasm in the rocks  and ruins of old buildings. Nules-murt is also  called Unt-Tongk and Mis-khun.  Numbakulla   In Australian mythology, self-  created sky gods who created humans from  amorphous creatures.  numbskull tales   (noodle tales)   These sto -  ries   are   widespread   around   the   world   and  attribute ignorance to individuals or groups. In  England they are the “Wise Men of Gotham,”  and in Germany they are the   Schild Burghers.  Some have characters that are used to char -  acterize their stupidity, such as the Irishmen  “Pat   and   Mike”   and   the   Norwegians   “Ole  and Lena.” Perhaps best known is the story  of “Man Sitting on the Branch of a Tree Cuts  it Off” (AT 1240). The fad jokes of the 20th  century include numbskull motifs, the Little  Moron jokes, the Polish jokes, the lightbulb  jokes, as well as an entire array of sick jokes,  elephant jokes, and many more.  See also:   gotham, wise men of;   schild bur -  ghers, the;   tale type  Nummo   (Nommo)   In   African   mythology  (Dogon of the Republic of Mali), twins, one  male and one female, produced when Amma,  or God, united with the Earth.  Amma, male, was lonely and came close to  the female Earth for intercourse. The union  was at first blocked by a red termite hill, which  had to be removed. The resultant act was there -  fore imperfect, and a jackal was born instead  724   Nudd

=== 페이지 742 ===
of twins, which would have been the proper  outcome. Amma and Earth united again, this  time creating a cosmic egg with twin placenta,  one   male   and   one   female,   called   Nummo;  they   were   green,   hairy,   waterlike   creatures.  Their top halves were human and their bottom  halves snakelike. They had forked tongues and  red eyes. The Nummo went to Amma, their  father,   for   instructions.   He   told   them   they  were the essence of water. From heaven they  saw that Earth was in need of help, so they  came with heavenly plants, the fibers of which  were used later by man to make clothing. Earth  developed the basis of a language, but she was  raped by her son, the jackal, who was jealous  of his mother’s possession of language. Amma  then wanted to create things without the help  of Earth, but the Nummo spirits drew male  and female outlines on the ground to be sure  that twin births would continue. As a result,  all human beings have two souls at birth and  are bisexual. At circumcision the female spirit  is removed from the male, and at excision the  male spirit is removed from the female.  In   heaven   the   Nummo   spirits   served   as  blacksmiths. Once an ancestor stole some of the  sun from their smithy, and as he was escaping,  the Nummo threw a thunderbolt at him. The  ancestor slid down a rainbow to earth so fast that  he broke both his arms and his legs. Since then  men have joints at both elbows and knees. This  first ancestor was a blacksmith, but with time  others learned to develop other occupations.  See also:   da; mawu lisa  Nunyunuwi   (dressed   in   stone)   In   North  American Indian mythology (Cherokee), can -  nibal monster whose body was covered with  a skin of solid stone. Nunyunuwi loved to kill  and eat hunters, but he could not bear the sight  of menstruating women. In one myth, he came  upon seven such women, and when he saw the  last one, “blood poured from his mouth, and  he fell down on the trail.” The medicine men  then drove seven sourwood stakes through his  body and placed logs underneath him, which  they ignited. As the fire burned, Nunyunuwi  spoke “and told them the medicine for all kinds  of sickness.” When the fire had burned down,  some red paint and a magic stone was left. The  medicine man took the stone for himself, but  the red paint he used to paint the faces and  chests of the people. The red paint granted its  wearer hunting success, skill, or a long life.  Nure Onna   (wet woman)   In Japanese folk -  lore, a female ghost having long hair and a  flickering tongue to taste the wind. For many  Japanese she is the personification of all evil.  Nut   (Nout) (water)   In Egyptian mythology,  goddess who personified the sky. Nut was the  wife of Geb, the earth god. Nut was also Geb’s  twin sister and copulated with him against the  wishes of Ra. In revenge Ra had the couple  Nut  Nut   725

=== 페이지 743 ===
separated by Shu, who held up the sky, and  said that Nut could not bear any children dur -  ing any month of the year. Thoth, the god of  wisdom as well as scribe of the gods, took pity  on Nut and constructed five epagomenal (new)  days not part of the curse. Thoth played a  board game with the moon and won sufficient  light to create these five extra days. On these  days Nut gave birth to Osiris, Horus, Set, Isis,  and Nephthys, according to some texts. The  sycamore was sacred to Nut. Each morning  the sun god Ra passed between the goddess’s  two turquoise-colored sycamores at Heliopolis  when he began his journey across the sky.  In Egyptian art Nut was usually portrayed  as a woman bearing a vase of water on her head.  She sometimes wears a headdress of horns  and the disk of the goddess Hathor and holds  a papyrus scepter in one hand and the ankh,  symbol of life, in the other.  See also:   geb; horus; isis; nephthys; osiris;  ra; set; shu  nut   Fruit of numerous trees; in European  mythologies and folklores, often a symbol of  fertility because of its resemblance to testicles.  At weddings in ancient Rome the bridegroom  would scatter nuts as he led his bride to the  temple. This signified that the husband was  giving   up   his   childhood   habits   and   sports.  Catullus’s   Carmen Nuptialis   says: “Give nuts  to the slaves, boy; / your time is past. / You  have played with nuts long enough.” The nut’s  connection with childhood is symbolized in  Jewish custom in a game children traditionally  play at Passover in which nuts are the stakes.  In Russian folklore, peasants would carry nuts  in their purses as a charm to make money. In  English folklore, the discovery of a double nut  indicated that good fortune was on the way.  To make sure of the good luck the finder had  to eat one nut and throw the other over his or  her shoulder.  See also:   hazel; passover  Nyame   (shining one)   In African mythology  (Ashanti of Ghana), creator god, often symbol -  ized by the moon or as Nyankopon, the sun.  Lightning, Nyame’s thunderbolts, are called  God’s axes. Stone axes are placed in sacred  forked posts standing by doorways, and pots  with special offerings are also made for the god.  Nyame is the god to whom people confidently  turn in times of stress and hardship. He creates  in mankind an appetite for life and makes it  worth living.  A nymph  726   nut

=== 페이지 744 ===
nymphs   (young unmarried women)   In Greek  mythology, lesser female spirits of nature, often  cited as daughters of Zeus. Among the various  nymphs   were   the   oreads   (mountain),   dryads  and hamadryads (tree nymphs), naiads (spirits  of fountains and rivers), oceanides (spirits of the  great stream Oceanus), and Nereids (50 daugh -  ters of Nereus who watched the Mediterranean).  Though   nymphs   lived   long,   they   were   not  immortal and often would fall in love with mor -  tals. Among some of the most important nymphs  were Echo, Arethusa, Oenone, Dryope, Calypso,  Thetis, Amphitrite, and Panope. Nymphs are  cited in Spenser’s   Epithalamion   (37–39), Pope’s  Rape of the Lock   (2.19–20), T. S. Eliot’s   Waste Land  (178–183), Milton’s “Lycidas” (50–51, 98–102)  and his masque   Comus,   in which he invents a  nymph he calls Sabrina.  See also:   amphitrite; arethusa; calypso;  dryads; echo; nereids; oceanus; oenone; the -  tis; zeus  Nzambi   In African mythology (Bakongo of  Angola), bisexual creator god, identified with  the sky and Mother Earth. Nyambe, Njambi,  and   Nzame   are   names   by   which   the   deity  is   known   among   other   African   tribes.   The  Bakongo people say: “He is made by no other,  no one is beyond him.” He shows kindness to  even the most destitute members of society.  Nzambi   727

=== 페이지 745 ===
6  728  o  oak   A hardwood tree, sacred to the Greek  sky   god   Zeus   and   his   Roman   counterpart,  Jupiter or Jove. The oracle of Zeus at Dodona  was located in an oak grove, where the priest -  ess pronounced oracles after listening to the  rustling of the oak leaves. In both Greek and  Roman mythology, the first food of human -  kind was the acorn, seed of the oak. North  American Indians, who ate acorns, believed the  oak was a gift from Wy-ot, the firstborn of the  sky and earth. In Germany, when St. Boniface  wanted to convert the populace, one of his first  acts was to destroy an oak tree sacred to the  Druids. The oak was thought to be the home of  demons, dragons, and dwarfs. In some north -  ern areas the punishment for injuring an oak  was to have one’s navel cut out and nailed to  the wound in the tree, then to have one’s intes -  tines wound around the tree. The expression  “knock on wood” is based on the belief that  gods dwelled in the trees and could be called  upon by knocking on the trunk. In England  Royal Oak Day, 29 May, commemorates the  restoration of King Charles II; it is named for  the oak that sheltered him in its thick branches  when he was fleeing Cromwell’s troops.  See also:   boniface, st.; druids; jove; jupi -  ter; zeus  Oakley, Annie   (1860–1926)   In American  history and folklore, stage name of Phoebe  Anna Oakley Mozee, a markswoman and mem -  ber of Buffalo Bill’s Original Wild West Show.  While the Wild West show was performing  in Europe in 1890 and 1891, Crown Prince  Wilhelm   visited   several   times   and   watched  Annie shoot the ashes off cigarettes. Intrigued,  Wilhelm asked Annie to shoot his cigarette. Oak   (Arthur Rackham)

=== 페이지 746 ===
Annie put the cigarette in Wilhelm’s hand and  not his mouth. Later it was said that if Annie had  shot Wilhelm and not his cigarette, she could  have prevented World War I. On 29 October  1901, two trains collided near Linwood, North  Carolina. Five stock cars of horses and other  animals belonging to Buffalo Bill’s Wild West  show were killed or mortally wounded. It was  reported that Annie was so traumatized by the  accident that her hair turned white within 17  hours. Another story says that Annie liked to  visit an Arkansas Hot Springs resort. On one  such visit in December 1901 or early January  1902, she was left alone by her attendant. After  about 45 minutes, she fainted in her hot bath.  Her hair turned white and her skin was speck -  led with brown spots.  Irving Berlin’s   Annie Get Your Gun   starred  Ethel Merman as Annie. The Hollywood film  Annie Oakley   starred Barbara Stanwyck. Annie  Oakleys are free passes to a theatrical perfor -  mance, so called because they usually have  holes punched into them.  See also:   buffalo bill  Obatala   ( king of the white cloth)   In African  mythology (Yoruba of southwestern Nigeria),  second son of Olorun, the sky god, who helped  create land on the water. He is Olorun’s rep -  resentative on earth and the one who shapes  human beings. He is said to have founded the  first Yoruba city, Ifé.  See also:   olorun  Oberon   (elf   king)   In   medieval   European  folklore, king of the elves or dwarfs, believed  by some scholars to be derived from Alberich  in   Norse   mythology.   At   his   birth   the   fair -  ies   bestowed   gifts   on   him:   one   gave   him  insight into men’s thoughts, and another gave  him the power to transport himself to any  place instantaneously. Oberon appears in the  medieval French romance   Huon of Bordeaux,  in which he is said to be the son of Julius  Caesar and Morgan le Fay, the sister of King  Arthur. Shakespeare uses him in   Midsummer  Night’s Dream,   Christoph Martin Wieland in  his   Oberon   (1780), and he is the subject of Karl  Maria von Weber’s opera   Oberon.  See also:   arthur  Obumo   In   African   mythology   (Ibibios   of  southern Nigeria), the thunder god, usually  regarded as the principal deity and the creator  of all things. His home is in the sky. Being too  far away to trouble about the petty affairs of  men, he leaves these in the hands of lesser pow -  ers, reserving to himself the ordering of the  great events of the years, such as the succession  of the seasons. At the beginning of the rainy  season Obumo descends in the form of a fish  hawk to woo his terrestrial wife, Eka Abassi.  See also:   eka abassi; obatala  Oceanus   In Greek mythology, an early sea  god, eldest son of Uranus and Gaea; married  to his Titan sister Tethys; father by Tethys of  the 3,000 sea nymphs, Oceanides, and other sea  gods. Originally portrayed as a great river encir -  cling the disk of the earth and flowing back into  itself, as portayed encircling the outer rim of the  shield of Achilles in the   Iliad   (book 18). Later,  the name of the great outer sea (as opposed to  the inner sea, the Mediterranean). Among his  children are Doris, Eidyia, Electra, Callirrhoë,  Perseis, Proteus, Pleione, Styx, Inachus, Melia,  Meliboea,   Arethusa,   and   Fortuna.   Oceanus  appears in Aeschylus’s   Prometheus Bound,   and  his 3,000 sea-nymph daughters inspired Jean  Sibelius’s tone poem   Oceanides   (1914).  See   also:   arethusa; callirrhoë; doris;  electra; fortuna; gaea; homer;   iliad, the;  styx; titans; uranus  Odhrerir   (Odherir, Odhroerir, Odrorir) (heart  stirrer)   In Norse mythology, a magic kettle  containing a magic potion, the mead of poets.  It was prepared by the dwarfs Fjalar and Galar  from honey mingled with the blood of Kvasir,  the wisest of men, who had been created from  the spittle of the Aesir and Vanir gods. (The  treaty of peace between the two groups had  Odhrerir   729

=== 페이지 747 ===
been sealed by each side spitting into a vessel.)  The drink conferred wisdom and knowledge of  runes and magic charms, as well as poetic facility.  Odin, the chief Aesir god, was aware of its power  and transformed himself into a snake to capture  the mead. It was under the control of the giant  Suttung, whose daughter Gunlod guarded it. In  his snake form Odin bored his way through a  rock to where Gunlod sat on her golden stool.  She let the snake drink as it lay in her arms for  three days. Having drained the caldron dry, Odin  flew away in the form of an eagle. When he  arrived in Asgard, he spit the drink into a vessel.  Odhrerir was also known as Eldhrimir.  See also:   aesir-vanir war; baugi; kvasir;  suttung  Odin   (Othin)   (leader   of   the   possessed,  frenzy)   In Norse mythology, one-eyed chief  of the Aesir gods; god of wisdom and war; son  of Bor and the giantess Bestla; brother of Vili  and Ve (or Hoenir and Lodur); married to  Frigga; father of Thor (Tyr) and Baldur. Odin  was called Voden, Woden, Wotan, Wuotan, or  Votan in Germanic and Anglo-Saxon mytholo -  gies. The   Prose Edda   describes Odin as the god  who “governs all things.”  Odin was the wisest of the gods, and all the  other deities came to him for advice. He drew  his wisdom from the well of the giant Mimir.  Odin gave up one of his eyes to Mimir as a pawn  to gain wisdom and was sometimes portrayed as  a one-eyed old man. Occasionally, however, he  appears as a heroic man with a spear and shield.  In Valhalla and Vingolf Odin gave elaborate  banquets, but he only drank wine, which was all  he needed to sustain himself. The meat served  to the god was given to his wolves, Freki and  Geri (the greedy one). Odin had two ravens  called Hugin (thought) and Munin (mind) that  perched on his shoulders. Every day they flew  forth throughout the universe and brought news  home to the god. Odin was often called God of  Ravens. From his throne Hlithskjalf in Valask -  kalf, the god could see everything pass before  him. His horse was Sleipnir, an eight-footed  animal; his spear was called Gungnir and could  hit anything aimed at; and on his arm he wore  a precious ring, Draupner, from which dropped  eight other rings every nine nights.  It is believed that part of Odin’s worship  consisted of human sacrifices. It was believed  that the god once hung on a gallows, wounded  with the thrust of a spear, and thus gained wis -  dom. Some of his worshippers were hung on  gallows in the same manner. Odin was called  God of Hanged Men or Lord of the Gallows  because of this. He would tell one of his ravens  to fly to the hanged man, or he would go him -  self to talk to the man. An 11th-century account  by Adam of Bremen tells of a sacrificial grove  near a temple at Uppsala where human bodies  hung from the branches of the sacred trees.  Among the many kennings for the god are  Ygg (the awful), Gagnrad (he who determines  victories), Herjan (god of battles), Veratyr (lord  of men), Har (the high one), Jafnhar (even as  high), Thridi (third), Bileyg (one with evasive  eyes), Baleyg (one with flaming eyes), Bolverk  (the worker of misfortune, applied to Odin’s role  in granting or not granting victory to his follow -  ers), Sigfather (the father of battle or of victory),  Gaut (the creator), and Tveggi (the twofold).  Odin  730   Odin

=== 페이지 748 ===
Odin appears as Wotan in Wagner’s   Der Ring des  Nibelungen   and is portrayed in Arthur Rackham’s  illustrations for Richard Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   aesir; audhumla; baldur; hliths -  kjolf; kenning; mimir;   ring des nibelungen,  der;   valhalla  Odysseus   (sufferer)   In Greek mythology, a  hero, king of Ithaca, son of Laertes or Sisyphus  and   Anticleia;   married   to   Penelope;   father  of Telemachus. Noted for his cleverness and  strength,   he   appears   in   Homer’s   Iliad   and  Odyssey.   The   Latin   name   form   Ulysses   (or  Ulixes) was used by the Romans, evidently  from a dialect where   od-   was pronounced   ol.  Odysseus began to demonstrate his heroic  strength at an early age. Once when his grand -  parents came to visit him, Odysseus saved them  from a wild boar attack. He killed the boar,  but not before he had been wounded on the  knee, which left a permanent scar. He received  his mighty bow from Heracles’ friend Iphitus,  whose father, Eurytus, had given it to him.  Only Odysseus with his massive strength could  string the bow. When he reached manhood,  his father, Laertes, gave up the throne, and  Odysseus became king. He tried to win Helen’s  hand, failed, and later married Penelope, who  bore him a son, Telemachus. While Telemachus  was still a baby, the Trojan War broke out, and  Odysseus, not wishing to honor his vow to fight,  pretended to be insane. He yoked a horse and  cow together and pretended to plow when the  officials came to call him to the war. To test  if he were really mad, the officials placed the  infant Telemachus in the way of the plow, and  Odysseus immediately stopped plowing, so he  was judged sane and recruited. His mission was  to convince Achilles to join the war. During the  Trojan War Odysseus mediated the quarreling  between Agamemnon and Achilles, rescued the  body of Achilles, and was awarded his armor.  When the Trojan prophet Helenus was captured  and asked what the Greeks must do to win the  war, he named three things: enlist Neoptolemus,  the son of Achilles, to fight; capture the bow and  arrows of Heracles; and capture the Palladium,  the sacred statue of Athena that protected Troy.  Odysseus succeeded in all three tasks. Finally,  prompted by Athena, he proposed the trick of  the wooden horse, which destroyed Troy.  After   Troy   fell,   the   Greeks   set   out   for  home. Odysseus, who had offended the sea god  Poseidon, was not allowed to return home for  10 years. His adventures from that point form  the basis of Homer’s   Odyssey.   A later myth, not  recorded in Homer, tells how Odysseus grew  tired of simple home life and set out again,  seeking adventure, and how he later died at  sea.   Dante’s   Divine   Comedy   (Inferno,   canto  26), using the Latin name form, places Ulysses  among the Fraudulent Counselors because of  the wooden horse. Dante has Ulysses tell how  he and a few companions set out beyond the  Pillars of Heracles to gain experience of the  world and see human goodness and evil, tell -  ing his men: “You were not made to live like  beasts, but to follow virtue and knowledge.” Odysseus offering the Cyclops wine  Odysseus   731

=== 페이지 749 ===
The crew reached the Mount of Purgatory,  where a storm destroyed the ship, and Ulysses  died. In medieval literature Odysseus is gener -  ally seen as a dishonest rogue. He appears as  such in the   Tale of Troy,   a medieval reworking  of the Greek legends, and in Gower’s   Confes -  sion amantis   he appears as a magician who was  taught his skills by Calypso and Circe, two  enchantresses. Tennyson’s “Ulysses” is a poem  treating the Dante myth. The major mod -  ern work dealing with the character is James  Joyce’s novel   Ulysses,   in which Leopold Bloom  is a modern-day Ulysses. Nikos Kazantzakis’s  epic   The   Odyssey:   A   Sequel   takes   up   where  Homer’s   Odyssey   leaves off. Other works that  treat Odysseus are Shakespeare’s   Troilus and  Cressida,   Monteverdi’s opera   Il ritorno d’Ulisse  (The Return of Ulysses), Giraudoux’s   Tiger at  the Gates,   and Gide’s   Philoctète.  See   also:   achilles;   athena;   heracles;  iliad, the; odyssey, the;   penelope; sisyphus;  telemachus  Oedipus   (swollen foot)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, son of Jocasta and King Laius of Thebes;  he unknowingly killed his father and married  his mother. An oracle had informed Laius and  Jocasta that their son would bring about the  death of Laius, his father. When Oedipus was  born, Laius had the boy exposed to die on the  slopes of Mount Cithaeron, his ankles pierced  by a long pin. The baby was rescued by a  shepherd, who took him to King Polybus of  Corinth, who brought the boy up as his own  son. Hearing rumors that Polybus was not his  natural father, Oedipus went to Delphi to ask  the oracle of Apollo his true parentage. The  oracle informed him that he would cause the  death of his father and marry his mother but  did not reveal that Laius and Jocasta were his  natural parents. Oedipus then left Corinth and  became a wanderer. One day on a narrow road  in the mountains, Oedipus met Laius, who was  himself returning from the oracle at Delphi.  Oedipus blocked the narrow road, not letting  Laius   or   his   servants   pass.   A   confrontation  ensued, and one of Laius’s servants killed one of  Oedipus’s horses. In a rage the young man killed  not only the servant but King Laius as well.  Thus, the first part of the oracle was fulfilled,  although Oedipus was completely unaware of  the fact. He then arrived in Thebes, where he  discovered that the city was being ravaged by  the Sphinx, a winged monster with the body  of a lion and the head and breasts of a woman.  The Sphinx would ask travelers a riddle, then  cast them from a high rock when they did not  answer correctly. The Sphinx asked Oedipus  the riddle: “What animal in the morning goes  on four feet, at noon on two, and in the evening  on three?” Oedipus replied that it was man who  went on all fours when a child, on two feet as a  man, and on three (two feet plus a staff) as an  old man. The Sphinx was so infuriated at being  outwitted that she threw herself off the rock and  was killed. The people of Thebes, unaware that  Oedipus was the killer of Laius, offered him the  throne and Jocasta, Laius’s widow, as a reward  for saving Thebes from the Sphinx. Oedipus  and Jocasta had two daughters, Antigone and  Ismene, and two sons, Eteocles and Polynices.  When a famine struck the land, the blind proph -  et Tiresias was called to determine what must be  done. Tiresias said that the murderer of Laius  must be found and punished. Oedipus agreed,  and in a short time it was discovered that it was  he who was responsible for Laius’s death and  that Laius had been Oedipus’s father. Jocasta  was horrified at the discovery and committed  suicide. In despair Oedipus blinded himself and  was led into exile by Antigone, his daughter. He  reached Colonus in Attica after years of wander -  ing and was given the protection of Theseus of  Athens. Oedipus’s sons then fought to regain  his throne in an expedition known as the Seven  against Thebes. Both sons knew from an oracle  that whoever had Oedipus’s blessing would be  victorious. His son Polynices went to Attica to  ask Oedipus’s blessing but was cursed instead.  Eteocles sent Creon to bring Oedipus back for  his side, but Theseus prevented his going, and  Oedipus cursed Eteocles as well. The sons then  732   Oedipus

=== 페이지 750 ===
Oedipus and the Sphinx   (Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres)  Oedipus   733

=== 페이지 751 ===
killed each other. Oedipus died (or disappeared)  in a grove sacred to the Eumenides at Colonus,  not far from Athens. Oedipus’s body was not  allowed to be buried at Thebes and Colonus  and finally found a resting place at Eteonos at a  shrine named Oedipodion, sacred to Demeter.  Sophocles’   King Oedipus,   also known as   Oedi -  pus   Rex   or   Oedipus   Tyrannus,   as   well   as   his  Oedipus at Colonus,   deal with the major myth.  The   King Oedipus   play served as the basis for  Cocteau’s Latin version,   Oedipus-Rex,   with music  by Stravinsky. It was also the basis for Cocteau’s  play   The Infernal Machine.   The Sophocles play  was translated into English by W. B. Yeats. Other  treatments are by Gide in his   Oedipe   and   Théséa  and by Pasolini in his film   Oedipus Rex.   Ingres  painted   Oedipus and the Sphinx.   Homer’s version  in the   Odyssey   tells us that Oedipus, the son of  Laius, accidentally killed his father and later  married his mother. When the truth came out,  Jocasta hanged herself, but Oedipus continued to  reign. Homer’s   Iliad   adds that Oedipus was bur -  ied with full honors after he was killed in battle.  Statius’s epic poem the   Thebais,   in 12 books, part  of which was translated by Alexander Pope, tells  the story of Oedipus’s curse on his sons and the  fight between Polynices and Eteocles. Freud  coined the term   Oedipus complex   to refer to men  with unresolved sexual conflicts concerning their  relationship with their mothers.  See also:   antigone; apollo; delphi; eteo -  cles and polynices; jocasta; tiresias  Oenone   (queen of wine)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a nymph of Phrygian Mount Ida, daughter  of Cebren, a river god; mother of Corythus and  Daphnis; a wife of Paris. Oenone knew Paris  would leave her for Helen and bring destruc -  tion on Troy. When Paris was fatally wounded,  Oenone, unable to forgive him, refused him  help. One of Ovid’s   Heroides   (5) tells her tale, as  do Tennyson’s   Oenone   and   The Death of Oenone  and William Morris’s poetic tale   The Earthly  Paradise.  See also:   daphnis; helen of troy; nymphs;  ovid; paris; troy  Ogier   the   Dane   (wealth-spear)   In   the  Charlemagne cycle of legends, one of the pala -  dins who lives in Avalon. As Holger Danske he  is still a traditional hero in Denmark.  Charlemagne made war against the king of  Denmark and took his son Ogier as hostage. The  young Danish prince was favored by the fairies  from the time of his birth. Six of them appeared  to him. Five promised him every earthly joy, and  the sixth, Morgan le Fay, foretold that he would  never die but would dwell with her in Avalon, the  land where King Arthur also lives forever. While  in prison Ogier fell in love with and secretly mar -  ried the governor’s daughter, Bellissande. When  Charlemagne was about to depart for war, he  freed Ogier to aid him because Ogier was known  for his heroic nature. Ogier returned to France  after the war and learned that Bellissande had  borne him a son and that his father had died. He  was now the rightful king of Denmark.  Charlemagne gave him permission to return  home, where he ruled for some years, and then  he returned to France. His son, now grown up,  had a dispute with Prince Charlot over a game  of chess. The dispute became so bitter that the  prince used the chessboard as a weapon and  killed Ogier’s son. Outraged at the murder of  his son and unable to achieve any satisfaction  from Charlemagne, Ogier insulted the emperor  and fled to Didier (Desiderius), king of Lom -  bardy, with whom Charlemagne was at war.  Oenone Warning Paris   (John Flaxman)  734   Oenone

=== 페이지 752 ===
Charlemagne   attacked   Didier,   but   Ogier  escaped from the besieged castle. Shortly after,  however, when asleep near a fountain, Ogier  was taken by Turpin, the archbishop and friend  of   Charlemagne.   Ogier   was   led   before   the  emperor and refused all offers of reconciliation.  He insisted that Charlot be killed for the death  of his son. Then an angel from heaven appeared,  telling Ogier not to demand the death of Char -  lot. Ogier consented and was fully reinstated.  He attacked a Saracen giant, defeated him,  and earned the hand of Clarice, princess of  England. He was then made king of England  but soon grew weary of ruling and journeyed  to the East, where he besieged Acre, Babylon,  and Jerusalem. On his way back to France, his  ship was attracted by a magic lodestone, and all  his companions perished. Ogier alone escaped  to land. He then came to an adamantine castle,  invisible by day but radiant at night, where he  was welcomed by Papillon, a magic horse. The  next day, while wandering across a flowery  meadow, Ogier met Morgan le Fay, who gave  him a magic ring. Although Ogier was now  100 years old, as soon as he put on the ring,  he became a young man again. Then, putting  on the crown of oblivion, he forgot his home  and joined King Arthur, Oberon, Tristram, and  Lancelot in Avalon, where he spent 200 years.  At the end of that time his crown acciden -  tally dropped off, and Ogier remembered the  past. He returned to France riding Papillon.  He reached the court during the reign of one  of the Capetian kings. Ogier was amazed at  the changes in court life. One day he had his  magic ring playfully taken from his finger and  placed on that of the countess of Senlis. When  she realized that it made her young again, she  wanted the ring for herself. She sent 30 knights  to take it from Ogier, who defeated them all.  The king having died, Ogier next married the  widowed queen. But Morgan le Fay, jealous  of his love for the queen, spirited Ogier away  in the midst of the marriage ceremony and  bore him to the Isle of Avalon, from which,  like King Arthur, he will return only when his  country needs him. Longfellow, in one of his  Tales of a Wayside Inn,   tells the legend of Ogier  and Didier (Desiderius). William Morris also  relates the tale in his   Earthly Paradise.  See   also:   arthur;   avalon;   barbarossa;  charlemagne; lancelot of the lake; mor -  gan le fay; oberon; tristram and iseult  Ogma   (Ogham)   In Celtic mythology, orator,  warrior of the Tuatha de Danann, Irish god of  literature, eloquence, fertility, healing, poetry,  prophecy, and war; husband of Etain; father of  Cairbe, MacCecht, MacCool, MacGreiné, and  Tuirenn. He is also the fabled inventor of the  Ogham alphabet, the earliest form of writing in  Irish. The Latin alphabet is adapted to a series  of twenty “letters” of straight lines and notches  carved into wood or stone. Ancient Roman  writers identified Ogma with both Hercules  and Mercury. On the Continent he was wor -  shipped under the name Ogmios.  See also:   hercules; mercury; tuatha de  danann  Ogoun   In Haitian voodoo, god of war and  fire, who is known as a healer and shows con -  cern for the welfare of children. As a god of  fire, Ogoun’s sacred color is red, and rum is  poured out as an offering to him, then set afire.  Ogoun is sometimes depicted in the likeness  of St. George. The association stems from the  fact that the warrior-god is associated with the  slayer of a monster dragon-serpent.  See also:   george, st.  Ogres’ Magic Clubs, The   This is a Korean  version of the well-known European tale of   The  Kind and Unkind Girl   (AT 403) but the protago -  nists are both male. A young man living in a vil -  lage goes out to the woods to gather wood for  his home. After a while he sits down and rest  but is suddenly struck on the head by a falling  hazelnut. This hazelnut will be for his father  he decides, but just then he’s struck by another  nut, which he decides will be for his mother.  Then, before he can leave, two more hazelnuts  Ogres’ Magic Clubs, The   735

=== 페이지 753 ===
fall on his head, and he decides that they will  be for his brother and himself. Suddenly the  clouds gather and rain begins to fall, and the  young boy has to seek shelter in a small cottage  he spots in the woods. It looks as if no one has  lived in it for a long time, but then he hears a  “thump, thump, thump” coming toward the  house. Quickly he hides in the rafters and waits  to see who might be approaching. They are not  people but ogres, and all carry large clubs that  they strike on the floor and call out: “Gold,  gold, come forth!” and “Silver, silver, come  forth!” Every time they do this, gold and silver  coins come out, and the young man watches  the ogres play their greedy game. He stays in  the rafters so long that he becomes hungry and  finally takes out the hazelnuts to eat. When he  bites into the nut, it makes a cracking sound  that frightens the ogres, and one of them leaves  his club behind, as well as all of the gold and  silver. The next morning the young boy takes  the club and the coins home to his parents.  His brother is jealous, and decides to try his  hand in the forest and in the cottage where the  ogres live. Without gathering any wood, the  jealous brother sits down and waits until some  hazelnuts fell on his head. These he puts in  his pocket because he knows that later he will  be hungry. Next he seeks out the house of the  ogres and hides just under the roof. When the  ogres come home, he, too, bites into one of the  hazelnuts and makes a loud cracking sound. By  now the ogres are wise to what is happening  and think that it must be the same boy who  tricked them and took one of their clubs away.  They quickly spot the jealous brother up above  and bring him down and say: “Let’s give him a  good beating,” which they promptly do. Later  they let him return home, but he never again  ventures to the small cottage in the woods.  Ogun Onire   (Ogun) (owner of the town of  Ire)   In African mythology (Yoruba of south -  western Nigeria), god of iron and war; married  to Yemoja, the female spirit of the Ogun River;  patron of blacksmiths and hunters.  Ogun Onire once descended to earth by a  spider’s web with his iron ax in hand. He wanted  to go hunting. Olorun, the sky god, asked him if  he could borrow his iron ax because Olorun had  only a bronze one that would not cut down trees.  Ogun Onire consented after he was offered the  gift of a crown. At first he was pleased, but then  decided he just wanted to go hunting and live  away from the other gods. Because of his love  of hunting, the other gods avoided him. Human  sacrifices were offered to Ogun Onire in past  centuries, and blacksmiths in Yoruba sacrifice  dogs to him every two weeks. Once a year the  people hold a three-day feast in Ogun Onire’s  honor at which they dance and eat dogs.  See also:   gu  O-Ikazuchi   In Japanese mythology, one of  the Ikazuchi, the eight gods of thunder.  See also:   ikazuchi  oikotype   (ecotype)   In the mid-20th century  the Swedish scholar Carl Wilhelm von Sydow  introduced the neologism   oikotype   into the study  of folklore. The term is based on the biological  concept of the   ecotype.   His intent was to show  how a cultural item becomes localized and to  describe those cultural forms that demonstrate  such localization. Von Sydow explained that the  process   oikotypificaton   “consists of a certain uni -  fication of the variants within one and the same  linguistic or cultural area on account of isolation  from other areas.” Today scholars are aware that  variation is common to human usage and that  such variation continues to occur and is not sim -  ply from the distant past. In the tales of Uncle  Remus, for example, the storyteller is using  Br’er Rabbit as his trickster, thus employing the  animal used in some African tales for stories in  the American South. When folklorists indicate  that something is regionally distinct,   oikotypifica -  tion   informs the presentation, and only rarely  do they now show interest in the geographic or  historical origins of an item.  See also:   br’er fox; br’er rabbit; trick -  ster; uncle remus  736   Ogun Onire

=== 페이지 754 ===
O Kiku   In Japanese legend, the spirit of a  girl who was thrown into a well.  O   Kiku   was   the   maid   of   a   great   man,  Aoyama. He was given 10 precious plates,  which he entrusted to O Kiku’s keeping. He  constantly told O Kiku that he loved her, but  she refused all of his offers. In anger Aoyama  hid one of the plates and then asked O Kiku  to produce the whole set. A hundred times  she counted the pieces, but each time only  nine came up. Aoyama then suggested that  if she became his mistress he would overlook  the loss. O Kiku refused and was killed by  Aoyama, who threw her body into an old well.  Since then her ghost has visited the place of  the murder, counting one, two, three .   .   . up  to nine.  In   a   variant   of   the   legend,   O   Kiku   is  said to have actually broken a plate. She was  imprisoned by Aoyama but escaped, eventu -  ally drowning herself. O Kiku is portrayed in  Hokusai’s   Manga   (Ten Thousand Sketches).  Okonorote   In the mythology of the Warau  Indians of the Guianas, a young hunter who  discovered a hole in the sky and descended to  the earth. In the beginning the Warau had lived  in the sky. One day Okonorote, a young hunter,  shot an arrow and missed his target. Searching  for the arrow, he found it had fallen through a  hole in the sky. Okonorote looked down and  saw the earth below, covered with forests and  pampas. Using a cotton rope, he climbed down  to look around. When he came back up, he told  the Warau what he had seen and persuaded  them to go down also. One fat woman could  not get through the hole and was stuck, which  prevented the Warau from returning to the sky  after they had descended to earth.  See also:   star husband  Olaf, St.   (forefather)   (c.   995–1030)   In   Christ-  ian legend, King Olaf II Haraldson of Norway.  Feast, 29 July.  As a young man Olaf fought in England for  King Ethelred against the Danes. He became  a Christian, tried forcibly to convert the Nor -  wegians to the new faith, and was murdered.  Soon after his death numerous miracles were  reported.   Snorri   Sturluson’s   Heimskringla  contains a long section on the life and death  of St. Olaf. He writes that the king’s body was  found complete, with no decay. A bishop then  trimmed the beard and hair of the dead king,  saying the hair was sacred. This was doubted  by some, so the bishop set the hair on fire,  but “it was not consumed.” When a spring  arose at the site of Olaf’s murder, it became  a cult site and “infirmities were cured by its  waters.”  Henry   W.   Longfellow,   in   his   Tales   of   a  Wayside Inn,   has   The Saga of King Olaf,   which  captures some of the vigor and style of the old  Nordic poems. Tooley, a street in London, is  believed to be a corruption of St. Olaf’s name.  Formerly it was a colony of Scandinavians in  the Southwark district.  Old   John   In   American   folklore,   a   tramp  printer who could make type fall into place  instantaneously   with   one   sweep   of   his   left  hand. At his death, Old John was believed to  have gone to a printer’s shop in heaven where  everything is clean.  Old Man and Death, The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world.  An old laborer, bent double with age and  toil, was gathering sticks in a forest. At last he  grew so tired and hopeless that he threw down  the bundle of sticks. “I cannot bear this life any  longer,” he cried out. “Ah, I wish death would  only come and take me!”  As he spoke, death, a grisly skeleton, appeared  and said to him: “I heard you call me.”  “Please, sir,” replied the woodcutter, “would  you kindly help me to lift this faggot of sticks  onto my shoulder?”  Moral:   We would often be sorry if our wishes  were gratified.  Old Man and Death, The   737

=== 페이지 755 ===
This fable forms part of the collections of  Lôqman, La Fontaine, and L’Estrange. There  is a similar fable from India, called   The Mes -  sengers of Death.  See also:   aesopic fables; la fontaine, jean  de  Olelbis   (he who sits in the sky)   In North  American Indian mythology (Wintun), creator  god. Before Olelbis created humankind, he sent  two buzzards, called Hus, to the earth to build a  stone ladder from it to the sky. Halfway up the  ladder they were to place a pool to drink from  and a place to rest. At the top were to be two  springs, one to drink from and the other for ritu -  al bathing. “When a man or woman grows old,”  Olelbis said, “let him or her climb to Olelpanti  (heaven), bathe and drink, and their youth will  be restored.” So the two buzzards left and began  to build the ladder. Coyote, called Sedit in this  myth, said to the two: “I am wise. Let us reason  about this matter. Suppose an old woman and an  old man go up, go alone, one after the other, and  come back alone, young. They will be alone as  before, and will grow old a second time, and go  up again and come back young, but they will be  alone, just the same as the first time. They will  have nothing on earth to rejoice about. They  will never have any friends, any children. They  will never have any pleasure in the world. They  will never have anything to do but to go up this  road old and come back down young again. Joy  at birth and grief for the dead is better, for these  mean love.” The two buzzards agreed, but one  said to Coyote, “You too shall die and lie in the  ground.” Realizing what he had done to himself,  Coyote tried to fly to heaven with wings made  of sunflowers, but he fell back to earth and was  dashed to pieces. “It is his own fault,” Olelbis  said. “He was killed by his own words. From  now on all people will fall and die.”  See also:   coyote  Olifat   (Olofat)   In   Micronesian   mythology,  trickster and culture hero, son of a mortal  woman and the sky god Luk (Lukelong).  Olifat was born from his mother’s head  when she pulled a twist of coconut leaf rib that  was tied around a lock of her hair. He was no  sooner born than he began to run about. Luk  told his wife that the boy was never to drink  from a coconut with a hole bored at its top.  But one day Olifat did just that. As he tipped  back his head to get the last drop of juice,  he saw his father in the sky. Immediately, he  decided to visit his father’s home. Riding on a  column of smoke that rose from a fire of coco -  nut shells, he arrived to see that workmen were  building a Farmal, or house, for the spirits of  the dead. Though his father recognized him,  he did not let the workmen know who the boy  was. The workmen decided to sacrifice Olifat  to ensure the foundations of the house. They  had planned to put him in a hole and then jam  the house post on top of him. But Olifat knew  their plans. While the hole was being dug, he  made a hollow to one side of it at the bottom.  When the men threw him in, he climbed into  the side hole as the post was pushed down.  With the help of some termites, Olifat made  his way to the top of the pole and shouted,  almost frightening the men to death. After  that he went on various adventures, many of  which   concerned   seducing   relatives’   wives.  Once he turned himself into a mosquito so  that he could be swallowed by his brother’s  wife in her drinking water in order to father a  son with her. In a more beneficent role Olifat  sent a bird down to earth with fire in its beak.  The fire was placed in different trees so that  men might learn to obtain fire from rubbing  sticks together.  Oliver   (olive tree)   In the Charlemagne cycle  of legends, Charlemagne’s favorite paladin and  close friend of Roland (Orlando). He appears  in the   Chanson de Roland,   which describes his  death, as well as in Pulci’s   Il Morgante Maggiore,  Boiardo’s   Orlando   Innamorato,   and   Ariosto’s  Orlando Furioso.  See also:   charlemagne; morgante; pala -  dins, the twelve; roland  738   Olelbis

=== 페이지 756 ===
Olokun   (owner   of   the   sea)   In   African  mythology (Yoruba of southwestern Nigeria),  sea goddess or god. Beliefs vary as to the sex of  Olokun, indicating that perhaps at first Olokun  was a bisexual deity. In one myth Olokun is a  male god in conflict with Olorun, the sky god.  Once Olokun asked Olorun to appear dressed  in his finest clothing. Olokun agreed to do the  same so that the people would be able to decide  which of the two gods was the greatest. But  Olorun sent the chameleon, dressed in clothing  exactly like Olokun’s. Olokun then put on ever  more splendid robes to outdo this display, but  each time he changed his robes to surpass the  raiment of the chameleon, the chameleon was  able to match him. This frustrated Olokun,  who came to accept the fact that Olorun’s  power was greater than his own if his mes -  senger, the chameleon, could outdo him. From  that day on Olokun has taken second place to  Olorun. In African art Olokun is portrayed  with a royal coral dress and mudfish legs. Both  of his hands hold lizards.  See also:   olorun; mulungu; unkulunkulu;  wele  Olorun   (owner of the sky)   In African mythol -  ogy (Yoruba of southwestern Nigeria), sky god,  the head of the Yoruba pantheon, who is not  interested in man’s affairs but lives in the heav -  ens. He delegated his creative power to Obatala  or Oshala, who fashioned human children in the  mother’s womb. Obatala is wedded to Odudua.  Obatala and Odudua had Aganju, lord of the  soil, and Yemaja, the goddess of water. The two  in turn got married and had Orungan, the god  of the upper air. But the lustful Orungan raped  his mother, Yemaja, and from the incestuous  union a whole brood of gods was born at a single  birth, including Orun, the sun god; Oahu, the  moon god; Shango, the storm god; Dada, god  of vegetation; Orisha Oko, god of agriculture;  Oshossi, god of hunting; Ogun, god of iron; and  Shankpana, god of smallpox.  Olorun is also known as Oba-Orun (king of  the sky), Ododumare (owner of endless space),  Eleda (creator), Oluwa (lord), and Orisha-Oke  (sky god).  See also:   eshu; obatala; olokun; oshossi;  shango  Olrik, Axel   (1864–1917)   Danish folklorist  who attempted to describe what he called the  “epic laws of folk poetry” in 1909. He pre -  sented folk narrative as structured according  to formulas for opening and closing and for  repetition (particularly of the number 3). He  also emphasized that there were usually no  more than two individuals per scene, who often  represented the good and the bad, or the large  and the small, and he pointed out the impor -  tance of the initial and final positions in a tale.  His assumption was that scholars “can deter -  mine the characteristics of particular peoples,  their special types of composition and cultural  themes.” His work helped lay the basis for fur -  ther structuralist studies of folk narrative.  See also:   propp, vladimir  Olympian Gods   In Greek mythology, the  12 (sometimes 13) major gods (with Roman  names in parentheses): Zeus (Jupiter), Hera  (Juno), Poseidon (Neptune), Demeter (Ceres),  Apollo (Apollo), Artemis (Diana), Hephaestus  (Vulcan),   Pallas   Athena   (Minerva),   Ares  (Mars), Aphrodite (Venus), Hermes (Mercury),  Hestia (Vesta), and Pluto or Hades (Orcus or  Dis). The Romans called the Olympian gods  di majorum gentium.   They lived on Mount  Olympus, the highest mountain, 2,980 meters,  in Greece, on the border of Macedonia in  northern Greece.  See also:   aphrodite; apollo; ares; artemis;  athena; demeter; hephaestus; hera; hermes;  hestia; pluto; poseidon; zeus  Om   In Hinduism, a sacred sound used in  prayer and meditation. It is a single syllable  formed by the combination of other syllables,  and it is so sacred that when it is uttered,  no   one   should   hear   it.   The   monosyllables  represent the Hindu triad,   a   being Vishnu,   u  Om   739

=== 페이지 757 ===
being Shiva, and   m   being Brahma. It signifies  creation, maintenance, and destruction of a  cosmic cycle. One Hindu text,   The Mandukya  Upanishad,   says: “Om. This syllable is all. Its  interpretation   is   that   which   has   been,   that  which is, and that which is to be. All is Om, and  only Om, and whatever is beyond trinal time is  Om, and only Om.” According to one myth,  only Agni, the fire god, possessed immortal -  ity; the other gods did not. Fearing that death  would destroy them all, the gods took refuge in  the sound of Om, which was given the epithet  “slayer of death.”  See also:   agni; brahma; shiva; vishnu  Omacatl   (two   reeds)   In   Aztec   mythology,  god of joy, festivity, and happiness; worshipped  by the rich, who held banquets in his honor.  He represented a late aspect of Tezcatlipoca,  after that deity had absorbed several lesser-  known deities. According to Fray Bernardino  de Sahagún in   Historia general de las cosas de  Nueva   España   (1570–1582),   the   god   would  sometimes appear at festivals for him. If for  any reason he was not satisfied, he would say:  “Wicked men, for what reason hast thou omit -  ted to honor me with respect? I will henceforth  abandon thee, and thou wilt pay dearly for the  injury thou hast put upon me.” Then many of  the guests would become ill, suffering dizziness  and headache. Omacatl is regarded in some  texts as an aspect of Tezcatlipoca, the Aztec  creator-trickster god.  See also:   tezcatlipoca; trickster  Ometecuhtli   (Ometecutli)   (the   dual   lord,  lord of duality)   In Aztec mythology, supreme  being, who was outside of space and time and  was the source of all life. He was the husband  of Omechihuath, who gave birth to an obsidian  knife, which she threw down to earth. From it  1,600 heroes were born, the first inhabitants of  the earth. C. A. Burland in   The Gods of Mexico  (1967) writes that the Mexicans “were quite  sure that in everything there was a unity of  opposing factors, of male and female, of light  and dark, of movement and stillness, of order  and disorder. This opposition and duality was  an essential of everything, and they felt that it  was through this principle that life came into  being. Hence, this god was a revelation of  something very deep but so unknowable that  he was the only god with no material temple.”  Omphale   (navel)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  Lydian queen, daughter of Iardanus and mar -  ried to Tinolus, who bought Heracles as a  slave and kept him three years in her service.  Omphale became his mistress and mother of  several of his children, Agelaos, Alceus, and  Lamus. During Heracles’ stay he dressed as  a woman. Saint-Saëns tone poem   Omphale’s  Spinning Wheel   (1871) is, according to the com -  poser, about “feminine seduction, the victori -  ous struggle of weakness against strength.”  See also:   heracles  740   Omacatl  Zeus (Jupiter), chief of the Olympian Gods

=== 페이지 758 ===
oni   In Japanese folklore, word for ogres or  devils. Usually an oni is of giant size and has  claws, a square head with two horns, sharp  teeth, and sometimes three evil eyes surmount -  ed by big eyebrows. Three toes and three fin -  gers are also common among oni. They can fly,  but seldom do. Occasionally they wear trousers  made of tiger’s skin. Sometimes, however, they  take on another form, such as that of a begging  monk or a woman. In some Japanese tales an  oni is converted to Buddhism and becomes a  monk, first having his horns sawed off. Often  in Japanese art priests are shown sawing off the  horns of oni, who then become temple guard -  ians who beat gongs and perform other menial  ceremonies. Oni occasionally march at night  in groups of 100 in imitation of religious cer -  emonies. When they are thus aligned they are  called Hiakku no Yako. At the beginning of the  year, a ceremony called   oni-yarai   is held, during  which beans are cast around a house to rid it of  any oni that might be lingering in corners.  onion   A   pungent   edible   bulb,   related   to  the leek. Plutarch writes in   Isis and Osiris   that  Egyptian priests “kept themselves clear of the  onion, because it is the only plant that thrives  in the waning of the moon. It is suitable neither  for fasting nor festival, because in the one case  it causes thirst, and in the other tears for those  who partake of it.” In Poland a folk custom  says that childbearing is eased if the expectant  mother sits over a pail of boiling onions. On the  other hand, a 12th-century Egyptian-Jewish  physician, Ibn al-Jamil, recommended rubbing  onion juice on the penis as a contraceptive.  Onyankopon   (the   great   one)   In   African  mythology (Ashanti of Ghana), sky god who  became disgusted with humankind and returned  to his sky home.  When   Onyankopon   lived   on   the   earth,  there was a very old woman who pounded her  yams so hard with her pestle that she knocked  against Onyankopon. “Why do you always do  that?” he asked the old woman. “If you con -  tinue, I will leave for my home in the sky.” Tak -  ing no heed of Onyankopon, the old woman  continued,   and   Onyankopon   kept   his   word  and left for his home in the sky. Then the old  woman told her children to use mortars piled  one on top of another to reach Onyankopon’s  home in the sky. They piled one on the other  and almost reached the top, but they needed  one more mortar. The old woman told them  to remove the one from the bottom of the  pile. When they did, all of the mortars crashed  to the ground, killing the children and many  onlookers. After this incident the Great One  remained at a distance from humans.  Onyankopon is also called Otumfoo (the  powerful one), Ananse Kokroko (the great wise  spider), and Otomankoma (the eternal one).  See also:   anansi; deng  Opochtli   (the left-handed)   In Aztec mythol -  ogy,   god   of   fishing   and   bird   snaring,   who  invented the fishing rod and harpoon. Opochtli  was portrayed as a naked man painted black, his  head decked with plumes from wild birds and a  coronet in the shape of a rose. He was portrayed  surrounded by green paper and wore white san -  dals. In his left hand he held a red shield, and a  white flower of four petals was placed crosswise  on it. In his right hand he held a cup.  Ops   (abundance)   In   Roman   mythology,  goddess of fertility; wife of Saturn; she was  either the same as Rhea-Cybele or a separate  deity. As goddess of plenty, human growth,  and birth, Ops was invoked by touching the  earth. Her major festivals were the Opalia (19  December), the Opiconsivia (25 August), and  the Volcanalia (23 August).  See also:   saturn  oral-formulaic theory   Also known as the  Parry-Lord theory, named after its founders  Milman Parry and Albert Lord. This theory of  oral tradition is based on patterned phrases, or  formulas, which are used in narratives as the  basis for their composition. Both Parry and  oral-formulaic theory   741

=== 페이지 759 ===
his student Lord applied the theory to living  traditions, specifically to the   guslari   (bards who  play a stringed instrument called a   gusle ) of the  former Yugoslavia.  Through field trips from 1933 to 1935 and  by Lord alone from 1950 to 1951, they were  able to record and study living south Slavic  oral traditional epics. Parry was interested in  the systematic recurrence of particular phrases,  like “swift-footed Achilles,” and reasoned that  longer epics might not be simply shorter works  loosely joined by a performer, but represent  “an expression regularly used, under the same  metrical   conditions,   to   express   an   essential  idea.” Albert Lord then took the theory to  its conclusion in the first line of   The Singer of  Tales   (1960) when he said: “This book is about  Homer.” The performance by   guslari   served as  a model for understanding not only the lengthy  national epics like those attributed to Homer,  but also for Anglo-Saxon, Old French, and  Byzantine Greek epics. In this way the oral-  formulaic theory was able to clarify some typi -  cal actions, such as preparing for battle, but it  was also able to identify story patterns common  in stories across cultures.  One of the conclusions drawn from this  field   work   and   theory   is   that   they   offered  documentation for the oral origins of these  texts. What is missing in this theory are the  extralinguistic aspects of oral tradition and the  restricting of originality and expressivity by  individual verbal artists.  orange   A citrus fruit whose blossom was a  traditional decoration for brides. The orange  indicates the hope for fruitfulness, while the  white blossoms are symbolic of innocence.  Sometimes it is identified in European folk -  lore as the fruit eaten by Adam and Eve; the  exact fruit is not named in the Genesis text.  It also was associated with the Virgin Mary as  a symbol of purity, chastity, and generosity.  Both Italian and English witches tradition -  ally used the orange to represent the victim’s  heart. The name of the victim was written  on a paper and pinned to the fruit, which  was then placed in a chimney to rot until the  victim died.  See also:   adam and eve; virgin mary  Oranyan   In   African   mythology   (Yoruba  of southwestern Nigeria), hero king, son of  Oduduwa.  Oduduwa, the father of Oranyan, was the  brother of God and helped create the earth  when God grew tired of his work. Because  of this Oduduwa felt that he should become  owner of the land. The Yoruba regard him as  their founder and say that Oduduwa was their  first king. Oranyan, his son, was a great hunter  who, as he grew older, spent most of his time  in a grove. He came out only to help his people  when they were attacked by enemies. One day  during a celebration a drunken man called out  that the village was being attacked. The aging  Oranyan came out on horseback and randomly  began killing his own people. The people cried  out to him to stop. Oranyan did, promising  never to fight again, and he thrust his staff into  the ground. Then, according to some accounts,  both he and his wife were turned to stone.  Pieces of his staff have been carefully placed  Orange blossom  742   orange

=== 페이지 760 ===
together at the sacred city of Ifé, forming what  is called the staff of Oranyan. The 20-foot staff  has many nails driven into it, though its exact  symbolism is not known.  Orcus   (boar)   In Roman mythology, one of  the names of the god of the underworld, identi -  fied by the Romans with the Greek god Hades,  who had a temple in Rome. Orcus also was  often used as a name for the underworld. In  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6) the hero Aeneas passes  through the Gate of Orcus, where Harpies,  Gorgons, and other monsters dwell. Orcus was  the god who brought death rather than a king  of the dead. He had a store chamber in which  he gathered his harvest, for Orcus was often  pictured as a reaper cutting the ripened grain.  In some accounts Orcus is believed to be a  form of Dis Pater, a Roman god of the dead to  whom sacrifices of black animals were made.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   gorgons;  hades; harpies  Order of the Garter, The Most Noble   In  British history and tradition, the highest order  of knighthood. The tradition began with King  Edward III around 1348 and was revived in  1805.   According   to   legend,   Joan,   countess  of Salisbury, dropped her garter accidentally  during a court ball. The king picked it up but  diverted the eyes of the guests away from the  countess by placing the blue band around his  own knee while saying: “ Honi soit qui mal y  pense ” (Shame on him who thinks evil of it).  The order is limited to the sovereign and the  members of the royal family and 25 knights.  Foreign royalty may also be admitted. The  only females in the order are the sovereign’s  queen and the eldest daughter if she is the heir  apparent to the throne. Garters were common  on the hat or the knee, and brides traditionally  wore several on their legs, which were then dis -  tributed following the wedding. Some of this  tradition still survives in the wearing of a blue  garter for a wedding and the tossing of it to the  attendants after the ceremony.  Orehu   In   the   mythology   of   the   Arawak  Indians of the Guianas, a water spirit, some -  what   resembling   a   mermaid.   One   day   an  Arawak was walking beside the water when he  saw an   orehu   arise from the stream, bearing a  branch in her hand. She told him to plant the  branch, which he did. Its fruit was the calabash,  until then unknown among the Arawaks. The  orehu   appeared a second time with small white  pebbles. She told the Indian to enclose them in  the gourd so as to make a magic rattle, which  was then used by the Semecihi, the medicine  men of the Arawaks, to ward off the Yauhau,  demon spirits.  Orestes   (mountaineer)   In Greek mythology,  son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, brother of  Electra, Iphigenia, and Chrysosthemis. Orestes  killed his mother and her lover, Aegisthus, in  revenge for the murder of Agamemnon. When  Agamemnon returned from the Trojan War,  his wife and her lover, Aegisthus, killed him  and seized his throne. Orestes, Agamemnon’s  son, was taken by his sister Electra to the court  of Strophius, the king of Phocis, then Electra  returned to her mother. After seven years the  oracle of Apollo at Delphi ordered Orestes to  avenge his father’s murder. Orestes and his male  lover, Pylades, son of King Strophius, went to  Argos, where, with Electra, they planned the  killing of Clytemnestra and Aegisthus. Orestes  and Pylades went to the palace disguised as  messengers, ostensibly to announce the death of  Orestes. Eager to hear the news, Aegisthus was  caught off guard and was the first killed. The  two then turned to Clytemnestra, who protest -  ed that a son would not kill his mother. Orestes  almost relented, until Pylades reminded him of  the oracle, and they then killed Clytemnestra.  Guilt for his deed followed Orestes in the form  of   the   Erinyes   (Furies).   Eventually,   Athena  calmed the Erinyes, changing them into the  Eumenides (kindly ones), and forgave Orestes.  Aeschylus’s trilogy, the   Oresteia,   made up of  Agamemnon,   The Choephoroe,   and   The Eumenides,  with the myth. Sophocles’   Electra   and Euripides’  Orestes   743

=== 페이지 761 ===
Andromache,   Iphigenia   in   Tauris,   and   Orestes,  also deal with the Orestes myth but make the  Furies imagined fantasies of Orestes’ guilt-rid -  den mind. Others who deal with or cite the  myth are Homer, Herodotus, Ovid, Pausanias,  and   Vergil   among   the   ancient   authors   and  Alfieri, Goethe, Giraudoux, O’Neill, and Sartre  in modern times. Strauss’s   Electra,   with a libret -  to   by   Hofmannsthal,   and   Darius   Milhaud’s  Choephoroe   treat the subject musically.  See also:   aegisthus; agamemnon; apollo;  delphi; electra; iphigenia; troy  Origin of the Tiger, The   This is a Cam-  bodian etiological tale. In a far-off kingdom a  king rules with his queen, four ministers, an  astrologer, and a hierarchy of mandarins and  officials to honor the king according to ancient  custom. No one in the kingdom is able to prac -  tice any magic, and this worries the king because  he fears that an invasion by an army might cause  his kingdom to be overrun. His officials recom -  mended that he make a trip to the kingdom of  Takkasila, where he can visit the famous teacher  Tisabamokkha, renowned for teaching magic.  The king makes the trip with his followers, and  they all learn the art of magic. On the way home,  they lose their way and fear that they will starve,  for they have eaten all of their food. One of  the ministers suggests that they use their newly  learned magic and turn themselves into a tiger.  When they agree, there is only the question of  who should be which part. Of course the four  ministers choose to become the legs and paws,  the queen becomes the tiger’s body, the astrolo -  ger his tail, and, finally, the king becomes the  majestic head of the animal. In this way, all are  able to catch their food, and they quite forget to  return to the kingdom that they had left. This  explains how the tiger came into the world.  See also:   tiger  Orion   (man   of   the   mountains)   In   Greek  mythology,   handsome   hunter-hero,   son   of  Poseidon, Zeus, or Hermes and Euryale; hus -  band of Side (pomegranate), who was cast into  the   underworld   for   boasting   she   was   more  beautiful than the goddess Hera. Orion then  fell in love with Merope, daughter of King  Oenopion of the island of Chios. While wooing  Merope, Orion cleared the island of wild beasts.  King Oenopion, however, tried various schemes  to prevent the marriage. One day Orion got  drunk and raped Merope and was blinded by  Oenopion as a punishment. Learning that he  could regain his sight from the rays of the rising  sun, Orion persuaded an attendant to the smith  god Hephaestus to guide him to the island of  Lemnos, where the sun restored his sight. In  another myth he was a follower of Artemis and  was accidentally slain by the goddess or was  killed when he attempted to rape her. In anoth -  er variant Orion was in the service of Artemis  when he was seen by Eos, dawn goddess, who  fell in love with him and carried him away.  Artemis killed him out of jealousy according to  some accounts by having a scorpion bite him.  Both the scorpion and Orion were then made  into a heavenly constellation. Vergil’s   Aeneid  Orestes and Electra at the  Tomb of Agamemnon  744   Origin of the Tiger, The

=== 페이지 762 ===
(book 1) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12) tell  of Orion. Spenser’s   The Faerie Queene   (1.3.31)  tells the myth of his death; Milton’s Latin poem  “Ad Patrem” deals with Orion; Keat’s   Endymion  (2.198) has the line “blind Orion hungry for  the dawn”; and Longfellow’s “Occultation of  Orion” also uses the myth. Nicholas Poussin’s  painting   Blind Orion Seeking the Rising Sun   is  one of his greatest works.  See also:   aeneid, the;   artemis; hephaes -  tus; hermes; hera; ovid; pomegranate; posei -  don; zeus  Orisha   In   African   mythology   (Yoruba   of  southwestern Nigeria), the gods, demigods, or  deified ancestors. There are hundreds of ori -  shas, ranging from the original sky god Olorun  to local protective deities.  See also:   olorun  Oro   In Polynesian mythology, Tahitian war  god, son of Hina-tu-a-uta (Hina of the land)  and   Ta’aroa,   the   creator   god.   Celebrations  in Oro’s honor, involving singing and danc -  ing, were arranged by hereditary priests. Oro  had three daughters, To’i-mata (ax with eyes),  ’Ai-tupuai (eater of summit), and Mahu-fatu-  rau (frog of many owners). Hoa-tapu (sworn  friend) was his only son. Sometimes Oro was  called Oro-i-tea-moe (Oro of the laid down  spear), making him a god of peacetime.  Orokeet   In Australian mythology, a name  given to both a male and a female evil spirit.  Orpheus   (sea perch)   In Greek mythology,  poet and musician son of Apollo and Calliope  (or Oeagrus and Cleio) who could enchant gods,  people, animals, trees, and rocks with the sound  of his magic lyre, given him by Apollo; married to  the Dryad (or nymph) Eurydice. Orpheus sailed  with the crew of the Argonauts in their quest  for the Golden Fleece. He helped them through  the magic of his music when he played his lyre  as they passed through the Clashing Rocks and  the region of the Sirens. On his return from  the adventure he married Eurydice, but accord -  ing to Vergil’s account in   Georgics   (4), she died  when the beekeeper Aristaeus tried to rape her.  As Eurydice ran from her attacker, she stepped  on a poisonous snake, which bit and killed her.  Distraught by his wife’s death, Orpheus went  to the underworld to bring her back. Orpheus’s  music so charmed Pluto and Persephone, king  and queen of the dead, that either one or both  agreed that he could take Eurydice back to the  upper world. Orpheus was told, however, that  he must not look at Eurydice until they reached  the upper world. Orpheus could not resist the  temptation to look at Eurydice and lost her.  This version of the myth is told by Vergil, Ovid,  and Seneca, but in a variant Orpheus was told  he could have Eurydice for only one day; then  Hermes, as guide for the dead, would come to  bring her back to the underworld. After losing  Eurydice,   Orpheus   wandered   about   Thrace.  He died on Mount Rhodope, either killed by  the Maenads, followers of Dionysus, because  he failed to honor their god or torn to pieces  by women jealous of his love for Eurydice. The  pieces of his torn body were gathered up by the  Muses. His head, still singing, and his lyre float -  ed on the river Hebrus to the island of Lesbos,  where they were dedicated to Apollo. Orphism,  discussed by Plato and Vergil, is a mystical reli -  gion that taught death and resurrection and that  one could become purified only when the soul  was separated from the body.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 10) formed the  basis for Politian’s   Orfeo,   the first Italian drama  on a classical subject; Monteverdi’s opera   Orfeo ;  Gluck’s   Orfeo ed Euridice,   in which Eurydice is  restored to Orpheus; Stravinsky’s ballet   Orpheus ;  Jean Anouilh’s play   Eurydice ; Marcel Camus’s  film   Black Orpheus ; two plays by Cocteau plus  some art work; and Rilke’s   Sonnets to Orpheus.  Orpheus is cited in numerous English poems  and   plays,   among   them   Spenser’s   Amoretti  (44);   Shakespeare’s   The   Merchant   of   Venice  (5.1.79–82) and   Henry VIII   (3.1.3–8); Milton’s  “Il Penseroso” (107–8), “L’Allegro” (149–50),  “Lycidas,”   (58–63)   and   Paradise   Lost   (book  Orpheus   745

=== 페이지 763 ===
7.26–27,   32–39);   William   Morris’s   Life   and  Death of Jason ; and Robert Browning’s   Eurydice  to Orpheus.   Moreau, Redon, and Lord Leighton  used Orpheus as a subject for paintings.  See also:   argonauts; aristaeus; apollo;  calliope; dionysus; dryads; eurydice; golden  fleece; hermes; muses; nymphs; ovid; perse -  phone; pluto  Orunmila   (the sky knows who will prosper)  In African mythology (Yoruba of southwest -  ern Nigeria), god of divination; eldest son of  Olorun, the sky god. By the reading of palm  nuts or cowries he perceives the meanings and  intentions   of   Olorun.   As   god   of   divination  Orunmila is called Ifa, a word that means divin -  ing. As Ifa, the god came to improve the health  of his people and assist in supernatural mat -  ters. Ifa visited many villages but finally made  his home in the sacred city of Ilé-Ifé. Ifa could  speak all of the languages known to humankind.  Because of his gifts he is seen as an intermediary  between his father, Olorun, and the people.  See also:   eshu; ilé-ifé; olorun  Osa   In African mythology (Edo of Benin),  sky god, supreme being who lives in heaven.  Osa created the world, while his evil counter -  part, Osanoha (Osa of the bush), made a house  in which diseases live. When men and women  on their way from heaven to earth came near  the house, rain fell and drove them to it for  shelter; thus sickness came to the earth. And  because the wicked Osanoha created animals,  man became their enemy and hunted them.  In a variant myth Osa and Osanoha agreed to  reckon up and compare their riches. Osa had  more children than Osanoha, and the two have  been enemies ever since.  Osa’s emblem is a long pole with a white  cloth attached. In some villages Osa is repre -  sented by a pot; in others, by a tree with a white  cloth tied to it.  Osawa   In   African   mythology   (Ekoi   of  Nigeria), sky god who sent two messages to  man, one of life and one of death. Osawa sent a  frog with the message that death ends all things.  Then he sent a duck with a message that said  that the dead will come back to life. The frog  arrived with his message, but the duck stopped  on the way and never delivered his message.  See also:   mulungu; olokun; unkulunkulu;  wele  Oshossi   In African mythology (Yoruba of  southwestern Nigeria), god of the forest and  hunt, whose worship is found today in Cuba  and Brazil. His followers dance to him carrying  a small bow, his symbol.  Oshun   In   African   mythology   (Yoruba   of  southwestern Nigeria), goddess of the Oshun  river and and fresh water; wife of Shango, the  thunder   god.   Her   worshippers   wear   amber  beads, and her cult is found in Africa, Cuba,  and Trinidad.  See also:   shango  Oshunmare   In African mythology (Yoruba  of Nigeria), the rainbow serpent, whose wor -  ship is found in parts of Brazil.  See also:   shango  Osiris   (mighty one?)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, Greek form of the Egyptian Asar, Ausar, or  Ser; god of death and resurrection; the brother-  husband of Isis; father of Horus; brother of  Set and Nephthys. There are a few texts that  depict Osiris as a terrifying figure who sends  out demon messengers to drag the living into  the realm of the dead. However, the main  source for the connected narrative of the myth  of Osiris is Plutarch’s work   Isis and Osiris,   which  deals   with   Egyptian   beliefs.   In   some   cases  Plutarch was mistaken about Egyptian beliefs,  though his narrative has left its mark on Greek  and Roman sources.  When Osiris was born, a voice was heard to  say that the lord of creation was born. In the  course of time Osiris became the king of Egypt  and devoted himself to civilizing his subjects  746   Orunmila

=== 페이지 764 ===
and teaching them the craft of husbandry. He  established a code of laws and taught men to  worship the gods. Having made Egypt peaceful  and flourishing, he set out to teach other nations  of the world. During his absence his sister-wife,  Isis, ruled the state. When Osiris returned, his  evil brother Set (identified by Plutarch with  Typhon) plotted with 72 others, including Aso,  the queen of Ethiopia, to slay Osiris. The con -  spirators built a chest to the measurements of  Osiris’s body. The box was brought into Osiris’s  banqueting hall while he was eating, and by a  ruse he was induced to lie down in the chest,  whereupon Set and his cohort closed the box  and took it immediately to the mouth of the  Nile, where they set it afloat.  These events happened on the 17th day of  the month of Hathor, when Osiris was in the  28th year of his reign. This day was subse -  quently marked on the calendar as triply unlucky  because it was the day Isis and Nephthys began  their great lamentation for Osiris.  When the report of the treachery reached  Isis, she cut off a lock of her hair, a sign of  mourning, and set out to find her husband’s  body. In the course of her wanderings she dis -  covered that Osiris had slept with their sister  Nephthys and that the offspring of the union  was the jackal-headed god Anubis, whom Isis  found and brought up to guard her. Actually,  Osiris had not lusted after Nephthys, who was  in love with him, but had been unwittingly  tricked by his sister into sleeping with her.  Isis learned that the chest had been car -  ried by the waves to the coast of Byblos and  there lodged in the branches of a bush, which  quickly shot up into a large and beautiful tree,  enclosing the chest on every side so that it  could not be seen. The king of Byblos was  attracted by the tree’s unusual size and had it  cut down to make a pillar for one of the rooms  of his palace. Isis learned of this and went to  Byblos, where she was taken to the palace to  become nurse to one of the queen’s sons. The  goddess would transform herself into a swal -  low at every opportunity and hover around the  pillar, bemoaning her sad fate. Each night she  placed the queen’s son in a special fire to con -  sume his mortal parts, until the queen finally  discovered her son in the flames and cried out.  Isis revealed her story and begged for the pillar  that supported the room. The queen took pity  and ordered that the pillar be cut open and  the chest containing Osiris’s body be removed.  When Isis saw the body of her dead husband,  she cried out with such a fierceness that one of  the queen’s children died of fright.  Isis   set   sail   for   Egypt,   where   she   again  embraced the corpse and wept bitterly. She hid  Osiris’s body in a secluded spot. The evil Set  stumbled on the chest when he was out hunt -  ing one night, realized what it contained, and  proceeded to cut Osiris’s body into 14 pieces,  which he dispersed all over Egypt.  When Isis heard of this, she took a boat made  of papyrus, a plant abhorred by the crocodile, and  sailed about collecting the fragments of Osiris’s  body. Wherever she found a part of her husband, Osiris  Osiris   747

=== 페이지 765 ===
she built a tomb. It is said that that is why there  are so many tombs of the god scattered through -  out Egypt. Isis collected all of the pieces of her  husband but one, the penis, which had been  devoured by the lepidotus, the phagrus, and the  oxyrhynchus, fish that the Egyptians thereafter  especially avoided. Isis then constructed a phal -  lus to take the place of her husband’s penis, and a  festival was held in its honor.  After some time Osiris’s spirit returned from  the dead and appeared to his son Horus, encour -  aging Horus to avenge his father’s death. Horus  and Set engaged in a great battle that lasted for  three days. Horus was the victor, but Isis, taking  pity on her brother, let him go free. Then Horus,  enraged, cut off his mother’s head, which the god  Thoth replaced with a cow’s head. (The goddess  sometimes appears cow-headed.) Set appeared  before the gods and accused Horus of being a  bastard, but Thoth defended Horus. Thereupon  two more battles ensued between the two com -  batant gods, and Horus again proved victorious.  This is the general outline of the Osirian  myth as written by Plutarch. Osiris was the  man-god (he was first human and later deified)  who had conquered death, and so, the Egyp -  tians believed, would his followers. In every  funeral inscription from the Pyramid Texts to  the Roman period, rituals performed for Osiris  were also done for the deceased, the deceased  being identified with Osiris.  Osiris   absorbed   the   characteristics   of   so  many gods that he became both the god of the  dead and the god of the living. Originally, he  was the personification of the flooding of the  Nile. He also may have represented the sun  after it had set, and as such symbolized the  motionless dead. Some later texts identify him  with the moon. The Egyptians said that Osiris  was the father of the gods who had given birth  to him, as he was the father of the past, the  present, and the future (immortality).  In Egyptian art Osiris is usually portrayed  as a mummy with a beard wearing the white  crown of Lower Egypt on his head and the  menat,   an amulet, around his neck. Sometimes  he appears as the Tet pillar, symbol of strength  and stability in life and renewed power after  death, and is called Osiris Tet. Other composite  forms of Osiris frequently appear:  Osiris-Seker —the   god   as   a   hawk-headed  mummy, sometimes standing upright, some -  times sitting. When seated, he holds in his  hands the whip, scepter, and crook. This com -  posite god signifies that Osiris became overlord  of Duat, the underworld, and absorbed the  death god Seker into himself.  Osiris-Neper —combination in which Osiris  was coupled with one of the oldest grain gods  of Egypt, Nepra.  Osiris Aah   (Osiris as the moon god)—the  appearing with a crescent moon and full moon  on his head. In his hands he holds the signs of  life, stability, serenity, power, and dominion.  Osiris-Sah   or   Osiris-Orion —as such his female  counterpart was Isis-Sept, or Isis-Sothis.  Osiris-Horus —Osiris coupled with his son;  together they become a form of the rising sun. Osiris-Seker  748   Osiris

=== 페이지 766 ===
Osiris-Ra —composite god in which Osiris  represented the day and night suns.  Osiris-Neb-Heu   (Osiris, lord of eternity)—  the god in the form of a mummy with the head  of the benu, or phoenix.  Osiris-Seb —Osiris fused with the ancient  creation god, who produced the world from  the Cosmic Egg.  Asar-Hep   or   Serapis —Osiris coupled with  the old bull god Apis. Osiris is also called  Unnefer (he who is continually happy), refer -  ring to his role in defeating death.  See also:   anubis; apis; benu; hathor; horus;  isis; nephthys; ra; seker; set; thoth  Ossian   (Oisin)   (little   dear)   (third   century  c.e. ?)   Legendary Celtic poet whose “works”  were   published   by   James   Macpherson   as  Fragments   of   Ancient   Poetry   Collected   in   the  Highlands of Scotland, and Translated from the  Gaelic or Erse Language ;   Fingal, an Ancient Epic  Poem in Six Books ; and   Temora   (1760–1763).  The books claimed to be translations of ancient  poems,   but   Dr.   Johnson   remarked   that   he  considered the poems “to be as gross an impo -  sition as ever the world was troubled with.”  In fact, the poems were mainly the work of  Macpherson’s vivid imagination and not of the  poet as claimed, though they were based on  the character Oisin, as found in Scottish bal -  lad tradition. Nevertheless, Europe was taken  by storm with the poems. German Romantics  placed   Ossian   on   a   level   with   Homer.   In  Goethe’s novel   Werther   the hero and Charlotte  weep over the poems. The French artist Ingres  painted   Ossian’s Dream,   and James Joyce cites  the bard in   Ulysses.  Oswald,   St.   (god power)   (c. 605–642)   In  Christian legend, king of Northumbria. Feast,  5 August.  Oswald defeated the Welsh king Caedwalla  near Hexham in 634 and was made king of  Northumbria. He was baptized at Iona and  with the aid of St. Aidan tried to convert his  people to Christianity.  One medieval legend records his charity. At  a dinner he was told that there were some beg -  gars outside his door. He had before him a silver  plate filled with meat. Oswald told his servant to  give the food and the plate to the beggars. St.  Aidan, who was present, held the king’s right  hand, saying, “May this hand never wither.”  When Oswald was killed in battle at Mase -  field fighting against pagans and their Welsh  Christian   allies,   his   right   hand,   which   had  been amputated, remained whole and “free  from decay.” His head was taken to a church  at Lindisfarne and buried between the arms  of St. Cuthbert. His right hand was carried to  Bamborough Castle.  “May God have mercy on their souls, as  Oswald said when he fell,” was a common  proverb for many years in England.  See also:   cuthbert, st.  otoroshi   In   Japanese   folklore,   a   fantastic  animal that protects temples and shrines from  impious people. If an impious person enters  the grounds, the otoroshi will pounce on the  person and tear him or her to shreds.  Otshirvani   In Siberian mythology, a creator  god who defeated the evil giant snake Losy.  In a Mongolian myth Losy lived in the water  and spent his time spitting out venom over  the earth, trying to kill men and animals. God  decided to have the monster killed and asked  Otshirvani to battle him. Otshirvani took on  the beast but was losing the battle until he fled  to Sumer, the world mountain, where he was  changed into the Garide Bird. As this fantastic  bird, he seized Losy by his head and dragged  him three times around Mount Sumer, finally  smashing the monster’s head against a rock.  Losy,   however,   was   so   large   that   his   body  wrapped   around   the   mountain   three   times,  and his tail was still in the ocean. Otshirvani  appears in some Siberian myths with the cre -  ator god Chagan-Shukuty.  See also:   chagan-shukuty; garide bird;  losy  Otshirvani   749

=== 페이지 767 ===
otter   An aquatic, fur-bearing mammal hav -  ing webbed feet and a long, slightly flattened  tail.   In   medieval   Christian   belief   the   otter  symbolized Christ because it was believed that  the otter killed the crocodile (the devil) by  entering its mouth and devouring its bowels  before reappearing. This was seen as symbolic  of Christ’s descent into hell (the devil’s mouth)  to free Adam and Eve and all of the Old  Testament saints and holy men and women.  But in contrast the medieval symbolists also  saw the animal as the devil because it insinu -  ated itself into a person’s heart in order to bring  about its destruction. In the Norse   Volsunga  Saga,   Otter, son of a human father, is killed by  the trickster god Loki, and to appease Otter’s  father the gods agree to pay him enough gold  to cover Otter’s body inside and out. Fafnir, a  brother of Otter, kills his father to obtain the  gold. Fafnir then turns himself into a dragon to  guard the gold and is in the end killed by the  hero Sigurd.  See also:   adam and eve; crocodile; fafnir;  loki; sigurd  Oum’phor   (Hounfor, Hunfor)   In Haitian  voodoo, temple resembling Moses’ design for  the Ark of the Covenant and the Tabernacle  (Exod. 25–27). The Oum’phor consists of a  large area, usually covered, with a center post  called   poteau-mitan,   which   recalls   the   staff  of Moses in the Bible. All important voodoo  rituals are conducted around the   poteau-mitan,  the top of which is believed to be the center  of the sky, and the bottom the center of hell.  The   poteau-mitan   is usually square and set in  a circular pedestal made of masonry. Around  the pedestal are triangular niches. The pedes -  tal itself is a form of altar on which are placed  various ritualistic implements. These include  the jars called   pot-de-tête,   containing spirits of  the people who worship at the Oum’phor, and  govis,   jars that receive the voodoo loas (dei -  fied spirits of the dead) when they are called  down by the   houn’gan   and   mam’bo,   the priest  and priestess of the cult. The loa is identi -  fied by the behavior of the individual who is  “mounted.” The large area is the Oum’phor  proper, a square house resembling the Holy  of Holies of the Bible.  According to voodoo legend, Moses was  taught   voodoo   by   Jethro,   called   Ra-Gu-El  Pethro in voodoo belief. Zipporah, the daughter  of Jethro, was Moses’ wife and bore the prophet  two mulatto sons, which so upset Aaron and  Miriam, the brother and sister of Moses, that  Moses eventually divorced Zipporah. The voo -  doo loas were so angry at this that they caused  Miriam to turn white with leprosy. The voodoo  version of the biblical account is, of course, at  variance with the explanations offered in the  Hebrew narrative (Num. 12:1–15).  See also:   aaron; ark of the covenant;  loa; miriam; moses  Ouroboros   In world folk belief, a serpent or  dragon devouring its own tail; often a symbol  of eternity.  Ovid   (43   b.c.e. –18   c.e. )   Publius   Ovidius  Naso, Roman poet best known for his great  poem   The Metamorphoses   in 15 books that tells  Greek and Roman myths from the creation of  the world to the deification of Julius Caesar.  In 8   c.e.   Ovid, who had held minor official  Ouroboros  750   otter

=== 페이지 768 ===
posts, was exiled by the emperor Augustus to  Tomi (Costanza), a town on the Danube near  the Black Sea. The exact cause of the exile is  not known, though some scholars believe it  is related to a scandal concerning Augustus’s  granddaughter   Julia,   who   was   also   exiled.  While in exile, Ovid continued to write his  Tristia   (Elegies) and   Epistulae ex Ponto   (Letters  from Exile). Earlier he had written   Ars ama -  toria   (The Art of Love), which Augustus did  not like because of its frankness about sexual  matters;   Remedia amoris   (Remedy for Love),  a series of short love poems;   Amores   (Loves);  and the   Heroides,   verse letters from women of  myth and history. Aside from these, he left the  Fasti,   a calendar of the Roman year, but it was  incomplete, covering only the first six months  of the calendar. Ovid’s fame, however, rests  on his masterpiece,   The Metamorphoses,   which  inspired many poets and writers, among them  Dante, Chaucer, Wordsworth, Pope, Dryden,  Goethe, Marlowe, Spenser, and Shakespeare.  In   The Divine Comedy   Dante places Ovid with  Homer as one of the greatest poets. In art   The  Metamorphoses   influenced most major European  artists, especially Rubens, Poussin, and Picasso.  Delacroix’s   Ovid among the Scythians   portrays  the poet in exile.  owl   A nocturnal bird of prey with large eyes  and a broad head. The Egyptian hieroglyph for  owl symbolized death, night, cold, and passivity  and was also used to indicate the sun below the  horizon when it crossed the sea of darkness in  its daily journey. In Aztec mythology Techolotl,  god of the underworld, was symbolized by a  night owl. In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Pimas) the owl was a symbol of the souls  of the dead. If an owl happened to be hooting  at the time of death, it was certain that the owl  was waiting for the soul of the dying person.  Owl feathers were always given to a dying per -  son to help him or her in the next world. If a  family had no owl feathers, they would obtain  them from a medicine man, who traditionally  kept a stock of them. In Greek and Roman  mythology the owl was sacred to the goddess of  wisdom, Athena, and her Roman counterpart,  Minerva. The city of Athens had so many owls  that the proverb “taking owls to Athens” was  an ancient equivalent of “coals to Newcastle.”  On the other hand, the Romans ritually puri -  fied Rome if an owl accidentally strayed into  the capital city, considering it an ill omen. In  medieval Christian folklore the owl was seen as  a demonic bird.  One British folktale tells how Jesus changed  a girl into an owl for being stingy. One day  Jesus, in disguise, went into a baker’s shop and  begged for some bread. The mistress of the shop  immediately put some dough in the oven. “That  is too much,” cried the woman’s daughter. The  girl went to the oven and reduced the amount  to half. Not satisfied with that, she went back to  the oven and reduced the dough again. But the  dough began to rise and rise in the oven, push -  ing open the doors and falling across the floor.  “Heugh, heugh, heugh,” cried the girl, owl-like,  Illustration for Aesop’s The Owl and  the Birds   (Arthur Rackham)  owl   751

=== 페이지 769 ===
and at that moment Jesus turned her into an  owl. Shakespeare was familiar with the legend,  since he has Ophelia say in   Hamlet   (4:5): “They  say the owl was a baker’s daughter.”  To Shakespeare and many of his contempo -  raries the owl was a demonic bird. It was the  “vile owl” in the poet’s   Troilus and Cressida   (2.1)  and the “obscure bird” in   Macbeth   (2.3). The  poet inherited the medieval bias that identified  the bird with Jews, who “lived in darkness.” In  Jewish folklore Lilith, the first wife of Adam  before Eve, flew about as a night owl, making  off with children. Although the Old Testament  does not contain the Lilith myth, the prophet  Isaiah (34:11–15) chooses the owl as one of the  demonic birds that will haunt the land of Edom.  There are numerous motifs associated with the  owl in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   athena; big owl; minerva  Ozymandias   Greek   name   for   the  Egyptian Rameses; used by the Greek histo -  rian Diodorus Siculus when he translated an  inscription at the foot of a gigantic statue of  Rameses II. It ran: “My name is Ozymandias,  king of kings: if any would know how great I  am and where I lie, let him surpass me in any  of my works.” The English poet Shelley, who  hated all despots, used the quotation with a  twist in his poem   Ozymandias.   Shelley’s poem  concludes:  “My name is Ozymandias, King of Kings:  Look on my works, ye Mighty, and  despair!”  Nothing beside remains. Round the decay  Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare  The lone and level sands stretch far  away.  752   Ozymandias

=== 페이지 770 ===
753  P 6  pabid   In the mythology of the Tupi Indians  of Brazil, spirit of the dead. When a person  died, it was believed that the eyes left the  body, which changed into a   pabid ; then the  pabid   would pass over two great crocodiles  and two giant snakes into the land of the  dead,   beyond   the   river   Mani-Mani.   Once  there the   pabid   would be greeted by two fat  worms, which would bore a hole in the belly,  removing all of the intestines. When they  had finished their meal, they would present  the   pabid   to   Patobkia,   the   head   magician,  who would sprinkle pepper juice into the eye  sockets, restoring the lost sight. In the land  of the dead a male   pabid   had to have inter -  course with Vaugh’en, the ancient giantess.  Female spirits had to have intercourse with  Mpokalero. After this one sexual experience,  no further sexual acts took place—men had  merely to place leaves on the backs of women,  who then bore children. When   pabids   wished  to sleep, they would lean against the poles in  their huts, cover their eyes, and sleep stand -  ing up. While the   pabid   lived in the land of  the dead, the heart of the dead person would  sprout after three days a   ki-agpga-pod,   a little  man who grew bigger and bigger until it burst  the heart. A magician then called up the spirit,  which assumed a visible form and was sent up  into the air.  Pachacamac   (earthquaker, he who sustains or  gives life to the universe)   In the mythology  of the ancient coastal people of Peru, supreme  god, often identified with the god Virachocha,  supreme god and creator of the Incas.  Pachacamac created man and woman but  failed to provide them with food. When the  first man died of starvation, the sun aided the  woman by giving her a son. This child taught  her   how   to   live   on   wild   fruits.   His   action  angered Pachacamac, who killed the young  man. From his buried body, however, maize  and   other   cultivated   plants   arose.   The   sun  then gave the woman another son, Wichama.  Angered again, Pachacamac killed the woman.  In   revenge   Wichama   pursued   Pachacamac,  driving him into the sea. Wichama then burned  up the lands and turned men into stone.  In another myth Pachacamac is the son of  the moon and sun. In this version, Con, who  may have been an earlier supreme god, filled  the land with men and women he had created,  giving them all of the necessities of life. When  some of the people annoyed the god, he turned  the fertile land into barren wastes. He left the  people only the rivers so that they might sup -  port themselves by irrigation and hard work.  Pachacamac came and drove out Con, changing  his men into monkeys. He then created the men  and women whose descendants exist today.

=== 페이지 771 ===
The chief center of the worship of Pachaca -  mac was a temple built on a small hill in the  fertile coastal valley of the same name south  of present-day Lima, Peru. His cult included  priests and sacrifices, and he was consulted as  an oracle.  See also:   cun; virachocha  Pachamama   (mother earth)   In Inca mythol -  ogy, earth goddess to whom coca was offered  to ensure good crops. She is still worshipped  in some parts of Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and  northwestern Argentina. Her festivals take place  at the beginning and end of the various agricul -  tural cycles. Among Christian Indians her cult  has been absorbed into that of the Virgin Mary.  Padmasambhava   (lotus-born)   (eighth centu -  ry   c.e. )   Indian Buddhist worshipped in Tibet  as founder of Buddhism in that country. He is  said to have been born from a lotus in the north  Indian   pilgrimage   town   of   Ujjain   (Tibetan:  Odiyan), where the elbow of the dismembered  goddess fell to earth. At the request of King  Thi-Sron   Detsan,   Padmasambhava   came   to  Tibet to subdue and pacify the native demons.  He remained for 50 years, teaching the doc -  trine of Tantra-Yogacara. He destroyed all of  the evil gods of the country and converted  those remaining to Buddhism. After 50 years  Padmasambhava   miraculously   disappeared.  Legend says he entered the body of a demon  king, Me-wal, where he reigned.  He is often called Guru Rinpoche (precious  master) and is portrayed in art seated on a lotus  with his legs locked, his right hand holding the  vajra,   the thunderbolt, and the left hand lying  in his lap holding a bowl made from a human  skull. A trident with three heads—peaceful, sor -  rowful, and a skull symbolizing the Hinayana,  Mahayana, and Vajrayana—is supported against  his left side by his elbow. His garments are  usually red. He has eight forms: Guru Pädma  Jungnä (born of a lotus), for the happiness of  the three worlds, the central figure in the plate;  Guru Pädma-sambhava (savior by the religious  doctrine); Guru Pädma Gyélpo (the king of  the three collections of scriptures); Guru Dorje  Dolö (the Dorje, or diamond comforter of all);  Guru Ñima Od-zer (the enlightening sun of  darkness);   Guru   S’akya   Sen-ge   (the   second  Sakya—the lion), who does the work of eight  sages; Guru Seng-ge da dok (the propagator  of religion in the six worlds, with the roaring  lion’s voice); and Guru Lo-ten Ch’og-Se (the  conveyer of knowledge to all worlds).  See also:   mahayana  Pa-Hsien   (eight   immortals)   In   Chinese  Taoist mythology, eight beings who as mortals  followed the Tao (the way) and achieved the  status of enlightened spirits. They are Chung-  li Ch’üan, Chang Kuo-lao, Lu Tung-pin, Ts’ao  Kuo-chu, Li T’ien-kuai, Han hsiang Tzu, Lan  Ts’ai-ho, and Ho Hsien-ku.  See also:   chang kuo-lao; chung-li ch’üan;  han hsiang tzu; ho hsien-ku; lan ts’ai-ho; li  t’ien-kuai; lu tung-pin  Pahuanuiapitasitera’i   (the   great   one   that  opens   the   sky)   In   Polynesian   mythology,  Tahitian   sea   spirit,   feared   by   sailors   along  with other sea spirits, such as Arematapopoto  (short wave), Aremataroroa (long wave), and  Puatutahi (coral rock standing alone).  Pairikas   In Persian mythology, evil beings  who act as enchantresses, aiding the evil spirit,  Ahriman. One of the group, the demoness  Pairika, symbolizes idolatry. She is put to flight  by the proper prayers and rites.  See also:   ahriman  Paiva and Kuu   In the Finnish epic poem  The Kalevala,   the sun and moon.  Both Paiva and Kuu attempted to woo the  beautiful Kyllikki, the “flower of the islands,”  to become the wife of their respective sons.  Kyllikki refused the offer of Paiva. She did not  want to live at Paivala, the sun’s abode, because  it was too hot. She also refused Kuu’s offer  because she did not want to live in Kuutola,  754   Pachamama

=== 페이지 772 ===
the   moon’s   abode.   Eventually,   Kyllikki   was  abducted by the hero Lemminkainen, but he  later left her for being unfaithful.  Sibelius composed   Terve Kuu,   for chorus, on  rune 49 of   The Kalevala,   in which Vainamoinen  calls on Kuu, the moon, in a mystic invocation.  The sun spirit is called Paivatar or Paivan  Tytar (sun’s daughter); Kuutar is the moon  spirit or daughter in the poem.  See also:   kalevala, the;   lemminkainen  Pajana   In Siberian mythology, a creator god  of the Black Tartars. Pajana formed creatures  from the earth, but seeing that they lacked life,  he went to the Kudai (seven spirits who watch  over men’s destinies) to obtain from them life-  giving spirits to instill in his new creatures.  Pajana left a naked dog to guard them while  he was away. Erlik, the devil, came and said he  would cover the dog with golden hair if the dog  would give him the soulless bodies. The dog  agreed, and Erlik then spat on the bodies. When  Pajana returned and saw what had happened, he  turned the bodies inside out; that is why man’s  insides are filled with the devil’s dirt.  See also:   erlik; ulgen  Pajanvaki   (smithy   folk)   In   Finno-Ugric  folklore, spirits who preside over metals.  Paladins, The Twelve   (officer of the place)  In   the   Charlemagne   cycle   of   legends,   12  knights devoted to Charlemagne’s service. The  number 12 is derived from the 12 Apostles  surrounding Jesus. The usual 12 are Roland  (Orlando), nephew of Charlemagne; Rinaldo  (Renault),   of   Montalban,   Roland’s   cousin;  Namo   (Nami),   duke   of   Bavaria;   Salomon  (Solomon),   king   of   Brittany;   Astolpho   of  England;   Archbishop   Turpin;   Florismart;  Malagigi   (Maugis),   the   magician;   Ganelon  (Gan), the traitor; Ogier the Dane; Fierambras  (Ferumbras), the Saracen; and Oliver. Other  names   given   in   various   legends   are   Ivon,  Ivory, Otton, Berengier, Anseis, Gerin, Gerier,  Engelier, Samson, and Gerard.  See also:   apostle; astolpho; charlemagne;  fierambras; ganelon; oliver; rinaldo; roland  Palden Lhamo   In Tibetan Buddhism, a god -  dess, portrayed with eye teeth four inches long,  with three eyes, sitting on a chestnut colored  mule. Her clothes consist of a girdle made of the  skin of a recently flayed man. Her mule, with  girth and cropper made of living snakes, tramples  underfoot the mangled remains of a human body.  The goddess drinks human blood out of a skull.  Pales   In   Roman   mythology,   one   of   the  Numina; a goddess of herds and shepherds,  invoked   for   fertility,   worshipped   at   Rome.  Pales’s festival, Palilia, was celebrated on 21  April, the date Romulus laid the foundations  of the city of Rome. Vergil’s   Georgics   (3) and  Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 4) mention the goddess.  See also:   ovid; romulus and remus  Pali   An   ancient   Indian   literary   language  that was used for writing down the canon of  Theravada Buddhism.  See also:   agama; anuruddha; arhat; bhik -  khu; bodhisattva; dharma; jataka; mahay -  ana;   maitreya;   nirvana;   pratyekabuddha;  sutra; tri-ratna; wesak  Palinurus   (making   water   again)   In   Roman  mythology, the helmsman of Aeneas who guided  the ship through a storm past Scylla and Charybdis  after the defeated Trojans left Carthage. Tempted  by the god of sleep, Palinurus closed his eyes and  fell overboard. He was found by local tribesmen,  who killed him. In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (books 3, 5, 6)  Palinurus describes his fate when the Trojan hero  Aeneas visits the underworld. Because his body  had been left on the seashore without proper  burial rites, Palinurus was unable to cross the  Styx, the river of death. The Sibyl who accom -  panied Aeneas on his underworld journey then  promised Palinurus that, even though denied  burial,   a   shrine   (Capo   Palinuro   in   Lucania)  would be erected in his honor.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   sibyls; styx  Palinurus   755

=== 페이지 773 ===
Palis   (foot licker)   In Persian-Islamic mythol -  ogy, a demon who attacks those who fall asleep  in the desert. Palis kills his victim by licking the  soles of the feet until he has sucked out all of  the blood. Once two camel drivers found a way  to ward off attacks from Palis. They lay down  foot-to-foot on the ground and covered them -  selves with their clothes. The demon arrived and  began to go around the sleepers trying to find  their feet but found nothing but their two heads.  In despair the demon gave up, crying out: “I  have traveled a thousand valleys and thirty-three  but never met a man with two heads.”  Palladium   (shield of Pallas)   In Greek and  Roman mythology, a token of Athena that was  believed to protect the city of Troy. When it was  stolen by the clever Odysseus and Diomedes, it  signified that Troy would fall to the enemy. It  was believed by the Trojans that the statue or  image was sent down from heaven by Zeus to  Dardanus, Troy’s founder, to ensure Troy’s pro -  tection. In a variant myth, the Trojan Aeneas  rescued the Palladium from Troy and eventu -  ally brought the image to Rome. On several  occasions it helped save the city. Homer’s   Iliad  (book 10), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 2), and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 13) all tell of the sacred  image. The London Palladium derives its name  from the mistaken idea that the Palladium was  a circus. In English usage the word is figura -  tively applied to anything on which the safety  of a country or people is believed to depend.  See also:   dardanus; diomedes;   iliad, the;  odysseus; ovid; troy  Pallas   (maiden, shield, youth)   In Greek and  Roman mythology, an epithet often given to  Athena. Botticelli’s   Pallas and the Centaur   and  Edgar Allan Poe’s poem “The Raven” both use  the title for Athena. Some scholars believe the  name Pallas derives from one of the Titans who  Athena flayed and whose skin she then used  as a covering. Pallas is also a common name  for humans in Greek and Roman mythology.  One of the best known is a son of Evander who  fought with Aeneas in Italy, killing many of the  Rutuli. That Pallas was killed by Turnus, king  of the Rutulians, according to Vergil’s   Aeneid  (books 8–10). Others include a giant son of  Uranus and Gaea; a brother of Aegeus, king  of Athens and uncle of Theseus, who tried to  usurp his brother’s kingdom; and a Titan who  was the son of Crius and Eurybea, married to  Styx and father of Nike, goddess of victory.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   athena; cen -  taur; evander; gaea; theseus; titans  Pallian   In Australian mythology, brother of  Pundjel, a creator god.  See also:   pundjel  Pallor   and   Pavor   (paleness   and   fear)   In  Roman mythology, companions of the war god  Mars. On Roman coins Pallor is portrayed as  a boy with dishevelled hair and Pavor as man  with bristling hair and an expression of horror.  See also:   mars  palm   A   tropical   evergreen   tree;   in   Near  Eastern mythology, associated with the Tree  of Life. In the Old Testament the palm is  sometimes   a   symbol   of   the   ruler   of   Israel  (Isa. 19:15 RSV). In the New Testament the  blessed are clothed in white and have “palms  in their hands” (Rev. 7:9) as tokens of their  martyrdom. St. Christopher’s staff was said to  be from a palm tree. In the Christian rite of  Ash Wednesday the ashes are made from the  palms used the previous year on Palm Sunday.  In Sicily the palms blessed on Palm Sunday are  not only used to remember Christ’s triumphant  entry into Jerusalem but are hung in homes to  induce rain and plentiful harvests.  See also:   ash wednesday; christopher, st.  Pan   (pasture)   In   Greek   mythology,   an  Arcadian   god   of   flocks,   fertility,   shepherds,  forests,   and   wild   life;   son   of   Hermes   and  Dryope or Penelope, or of Zeus and Hybris;  called Faunus by the Romans. Pan was often  portrayed with an erect phallus, though later  756   Palis

=== 페이지 774 ===
Greek   and   Roman   art   portrayed   him   as   a  horned man with a beard and the lower part  of a goat (which Christianity later identified  with Satan). Pan invented the seven-reed flute,  calling it Syrinx, after the nymph Syrinx, who,  when he tried to rape her, was transformed  into a reed, which Pan used for his first flute  pipe. The English word   panic   derives from the  fear inspired by Pan, though in some accounts,  Panic is the son of Ares, the war god, and  the brother of Eris (discord), Phobos (alarm),  Metus (fear), Demios (dread), and Pallor (ter -  ror). One of the Homeric Hymns (attributed  to Homer but not by him) deals with Pan, as  does the poet Pindar. Other literary works  about Pan are Shelley’s “Hymn of Pan” and  E. M. Forster’s “Story of Panic.” Elizabeth  Browning’s poem   The Dead Pan   (1844) deals  with the myth that when Christ died on the  cross, the cry “Great Pan is dead” swept across  the world, telling all that the pagan gods were  no more. One of the most famous paintings of  the god, Luca Signorelli’s   The Realm of Pan,   was  destroyed in World War II.  See also:   arcadia; ares; faunus; hermes;  homer; nymphs; penelope; zeus  Panacea   (heal-all)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess of health, daughter of Aesculapius and sister  of Hygeia, Machaon, and Podalirius. The word  panacea   comes from the name of the goddess.  See also:   hygeia; machaon  Panathenaea   (all-Athenian   festival)   In  ancient Greek ritual, the summer festival in  honor of Athena’s birthday. As part of the rite  the people presented a peplum to the goddess  in a long procession along the Sacred Way to  the Parthenon. This scene is depicted on one  of the temple friezes of the Elgin Marbles.  See also:   athena; elgin marbles  Panchajana   In Hindu mythology, a demon  who lived in the sea in the form of a conch  shell. Panchajana seized the son of Sandipani,  but Krishna rescued the boy and killed the  demon. Krishna then used the conch shell for a  horn. Later the conch shell became one of the  symbols of Krishna and Vishnu.  See also:   krishna; vishnu  Panchatantra,   The   (five   books)   Hindu  collection of fables and tales within a narrative  framework; some were composed about 200  b.c.e.,   although the standard text dates from  1199   c.e.  There once lived a king called Immortal  Power who had three sons, Rich Power, Fierce  Power, and Endless Power. All three sons “were  supreme blockheads,” and the king therefore  called his wise men to see what could be done  to educate his sons and prepare them for their  duties. He chose a wise Brahman (priest), Vish -  nusharman, who promised to render the king’s  sons wise and intelligent in six months, or else,  he told the king, “His Majesty is at liberty to  show me His Majestic bare bottom.” Pan  Panchatantra, The   757

=== 페이지 775 ===
Vishnusharman took the three princes home  and assigned them to learn “by heart five books”  of fables that he had composed, as follows:  The Loss of Friends,   telling of the broken  friendship between a lion, Rusty, and a bull,  Lively. There are more than 30 tales in this sec -  tion, told by two jackals, Victor and Cheek.  The Winning of Friends,   which has as its fram -  ing story the tale of the friendship of the crow,  the mouse, the turtle, and the deer, who are  called, respectively, Swift, Gold, Slow, and Spot.  Crows and Owls,   telling of the war between  the crows and owls.  Loss of Gains,   containing some 12 tales, one  of which is the well-known   The Ass in the Tiger  Skin,   which is found in many Aesopic collec -  tions as   The Ass in the Lion’s Skin.  Ill-Considered   Action,   containing   11   tales  relating to that subject.  In the various tales in   The Panchatantra   the  actors are animals that conform to most folk -  loric motifs associated with animals: the lion  is strong but dull-witted; the jackal, crafty; the  heron, stupid; the cat, a hypocrite; and so on.  In   his   translation   of   The   Panchatantra  Arthur W. Ryder writes that it “contains the  most widely known stories in the world. If it  were further declared that the   Panchatantra   is  the best collection of stories in the world, the  assertion could hardly be disproved, and would  probably command the assent of those possess -  ing the knowledge for a judgment.”  By the 17th century   The Panchatantra   had  been translated into all major European lan -  guages. One of its most important influences  was on various Aesopic collections of fables.  One tale in the collection influenced Hans  Christian Andersen, whose   The Princess and the  Pea   was inspired by one of the Indian fables.  See also:   aesopic fables;   ass in the lion’s  skin, the;   brahman; frame tale; motif  Pancras, St.   (fourth century?)   In Christian  legend,   martyr,   patron   saint   of   children.  Invoked against cramp, false witness, headache,  and perjury. Feast, 12 May.  Pancras was martyred at 14 after he told  Emperor Diocletian that if the ruler’s servants  behaved   as   the   Roman   gods   did   he   would  “haste to put them to death.” The emperor did  not like the quick wit of the boy and had him  beheaded. According to St. Gregory of Tours,  whenever a “perjurer nears the tomb of St.  Pancras, either he falls dead on the flagstones,  or else, a demon seizes him and sets him writh -  ing in a fit.” Formerly, French kings confirmed  treaties in the name of St. Pancras, feeling  that either party swearing falsely would drop  dead immediately. One legend recorded in   The  Golden Legend,   written in the 13th century by  Jacobus de Voragine, tells how two men were  on trial and “the judge knew which of them was  the culprit,” but he let them swear their inno -  cence before the altar of St. Peter. When they  both remained unharmed he said, “Old Saint  Peter is too merciful! Let us consult the young  Saint Pancras.” They did, and the liar “fell dead  in a moment.”  See also:   golden legend, the;   gregory of  tours; nicholas, st; peter, st.  Pandarus   (he who flays all)   In Greek and  Roman   mythology,   the   go-between   of   the  lovers   Troilus   and   Cressida.   Pandarus   was  killed by Diomedes during the Trojan War.  Pandarus appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (book 2),  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 5), Boccaccio’s   Filostrato,  Chaucer’s   Troilus and Criseyde,   and Shakespeare’s  Troilus and Cressida.   The word   pander,   meaning  procurer, comes from Pandarus.  See also:   aeneid, the;   chaucer; diomedes;  iliad, the  Pandora   (all gifts)   In Greek mythology, the  first woman. After Prometheus had created  man, Pandora was made of clay by Hephaestus  at Zeus’s command, in order to punish men.  Pandora was given a jar (or box) that contained  all of the evils of the world and was told not to  open it. She did open it and let loose all evils.  All that remained in the box was Elpis (Hope).  The expression “Pandora’s box” comes from the  758   Pancras, St.

=== 페이지 776 ===
myth, which is cited by Apollodorus   Bibliotheca  (Library)   and   Hyginus’s   Fables.   It   inspired  Milton’s lines in   Paradise Lost   (book 4.714)  that described the fatal beauty of Eve. Pandora  also is the subject of Spenser’s “Sonnet XXIV,”  Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s poem “Pandora,” and  Longfellow’s   Masque of Pandora.  See also:   apollodorus; hephaestus; pro -  metheus; zeus  P’ang Chu, P’ang Ch’ê, and P’ang Chiao  In   Chinese   mythology,   three   goddesses   of  the corpse, portrayed as Buddhist nuns, one  dressed in green, one in white, and one in red.  The three live in the body. When they leave  the body they tell the gods of the sins commit -  ted by the dead.  Panis   (misers)   In Hindu mythology, a race  of demons who stole cows and hid them in  caverns. In the sacred collection of hymns, the  Rig-Veda, they are called “the senseless, false,  evil-speaking unbelieving, unpraising, unwor -  shipping Panis.” Some scholars believe them  to be the native inhabitants of India, who were  enemies of the invading Aryans.  See also:   rig-veda  P’an-ku   (Phan-ku)   In   Chinese   mythology,  primeval being, creator of humankind.  In some texts P’an-ku emerged from the cos -  mic hen’s egg, which was all that existed before  heaven and earth were created. The contents  of the egg then divided, producing the Yin and  Yang. The heavy elements descended, bringing  forth the earth, while the lighter elements pro -  duced the sky. For 18,000 years P’an-ku grew  at the rate of ten feet a day between heaven and  earth, filling the space between the two. When  he died, his body became the natural elements  making up the earth. In a variant myth P’an-ku  made the world, plants, and animals while he  was alive. Realizing that there were no people,  he made figures out of clay. When they were  dry, they were to be impregnated with the vital  forces of Yin and Yang. Before full life came  to them, however, a storm arose, and P’an-ku  brought into his house all of the figurines that  were out baking in the sun. Some of them were  damaged, and that is why some people are born  lame or sick.  In Chinese art P’an-ku, though a giant,  is portrayed as a dwarf, dressed either in a  bearskin or in leaves. Sometimes he holds the  symbol for Yin and Yang.  See also:   yin and yang  Parameshthin   (who   stands   in   the   highest  place)   In   Hindu   mythology,   a   title   often  applied to the gods or to distinguished mortals;  a name in the Vedas for a son of Prajapati.  See also:   prajapati; vedas  Paran-ja   In Hindu mythology, the sword of  the storm god, Indra.  See also:   indra  Pariacaca   In the mythology of the Huarochiri  (Warachiri) Indians of the western side of the  coastal cordillera of Peru, a hero-god. The  myth of Pariacaca is told by Francisco de Ávila, a  Roman Catholic priest of San Damian, a parish  in the district of the Huarochiri, in   A Narrative  of the Errors, False Gods, and Other Superstitions  and Diabolical Rites .   .   . [of] the Indians   (1608).  There was a great flood, and five eggs were  deposited on Mount Condorcoto. From the  eggs were born five falcons who turned into  men, Pariacaca and his brothers. They went  about doing many marvelous things.  Pariacaca decided to try his strength against  the rival god, Hulallallo Caruincho, and went  in search of him. Pariacaca’s strength lay in  wind, rain, and flood; Caruincho’s, in fire. Pass -  ing through a village called Huagaihusa in the  guise of a poor man, he was not well received  except by one young woman, who brought  him chicha to drink. He destroyed the place by  rain and flood, having first warned the woman  and her family so that they could escape. He  defeated Hulallallo Caruincho and caused him  to flee toward the Amazonian forest.  Pariacaca   759

=== 페이지 777 ===
But Caruincho only pretended to enter the  forest. He turned himself into a bird and hid  on a cliff on Mount Tacilluka. This time the  five sons of Pariacaca swept the mountain with  thunderbolts and a storm, and Caruincho had  to flee again, but he left behind an enormous  serpent with two heads that was changed to  stone   by   Pariacaca.   Closely   pursued,   Caru -  incho took refuge in the jungle. The sons of  Pariacaca went to Mount Llamallaku, where  they called together all of the peoples and  established the cult of Pariacaca. Long after -  ward when the Inca came to power, they took  over this cult.  Pariacaca is believed by some scholars to be  a god of the waters or a deified mountain that  gives both rain and irrigating streams.  Paris   (wallet)   In Greek mythology, abduc -  tor of Helen, second son of King Priam of  Troy and Queen Hecuba; brother of Aesacus,  Cassandra,   Creusa,   Deiphobus,   Hector,  Helenus, Polyxena, and Troilus; married to  Oenone;   father   of   Corythus   and   Daphnis.  Before Paris was born, Hecuba dreamed she  would deliver a firebrand that would destroy  Troy. Priam, therefore, had Paris, also called  Alexander   (champion),   exposed   at   birth   on  Mount Ida. But the child was suckled by a she-  bear for five days and then raised by a shep -  herd, Agelaus, as his own son. While a youth,  Paris married the nymph Oenone, whom he  later deserted. To settle an argument among  the goddesses about who would receive a gold -  en apple and have the honor of being called  the fairest, Zeus, who did not wish to make a  choice, sent his messenger god Hermes to Paris  to ask him to make the choice. The three god -  desses, Aphrodite, Artemis, and Hera, appeared  before the youth in what has come to be known  as the Judgment of Paris. Hera, wife of Zeus,  promised Paris royal power, Athena promised  victory in war, and Aphrodite promised him  the most beautiful woman in the world. Paris  chose Aphrodite as the fairest and gave her the  golden apple. Of course, he made enemies of  the other goddesses by his decision. His prize,  the most beautiful woman in the world, was  Helen, wife of King Menelaus of Sparta and  mother of Hermione. Keeping her word, the  goddess Aphrodite led Paris to Sparta, where  he was entertained by Menelaus and Helen as  a guest. While Menelaus was away, Aphrodite  made Helen fall in love with Paris, and the two  fled. Eventually this rash act led to the Trojan  War when the Greek forces under Agamemnon  sought to return Helen to Menelaus.  During the Trojan War, Paris’s reputation  was that of a coward because he was apt to  run away from the fight and go home to have  sexual intercourse with Helen. After 10 years of  war Paris and Menelaus met one to one on the  battlefield. It was believed that the war would  end when the duel was over. Paris threw his  spear at Menelaus, but Menelaus turned the  spear aside with his shield. Then Menelaus cast  his spear, which only ripped Paris’s tunic. The  two men then drew their swords. Menelaus’s  sword broke during the first exchange, but he  was so angry he grabbed Paris by his helmet  and dragged him toward the Greek camp by his  helmet’s chin strap. Aphrodite, fearful that her  favorite would die, cut the strap, covered Paris  in a cloud, and took him to Helen’s bedroom  to make love. Homer’s   Iliad   does not tell us  of the end of Paris, but later Greek myth says  Hector Chiding Paris   (John Flaxman)  760   Paris

=== 페이지 778 ===
he killed Achilles with a poisoned arrow in the  hero’s vulnerable heel and was then killed by  a poisoned arrow of Philoctetes. Paris asked  his men to take him to Oenone, the nymph he  had deserted. She refused to save his life, but  when he died she killed herself. Paris appears  in Homer’s   Iliad ; Vergil’s   Aeneid   (books 1, 7);  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12) and   Heroides  (16, 17); William Morris’s “Death of Paris” in  The Earthly Paradise ; W. S. Landor’s   Death of  Paris and Oenone ; Tennyson’s “Dream of Fair  Women,”   Oenone,   and   Death of Oenone ; and in  David’s painting   Paris and Helen.  See also:   aeneid, the;   aesacus; agamem -  non; aphrodite; artemis; cassandra; daph -  nis; hector; helenus;   iliad, the;   menelaus;  oenone; polyxena; priam; troy; zeus  Parnassus   (surrounding   island)   In   Greek  history   and   mythology,   mountain   of   Phoas  near Delphi, northwest of Athens, consecrat -  ed to Apollo, the Muses, and Dionysus. Its  slopes contained the famous oracle of Apollo.  The boat of Deucalion came to rest on the  mountain’s slopes after the flood. The theme of  Apollo and the Muses was painted by Raphael,  Mantegna, Poussin, and Domenichino, all using  images from Ovid’s   Metamorphoses.   The name  of the culture center in Paris, Montparnasse,  The Judgment of Paris   (John Flaxman)  Apollo and the Muses on Parnassus   (after Anton Raphael Mengs)  Parnassus   761

=== 페이지 779 ===
is derived from Parnassus. Between 1860 and  1876 a group of young artists published a peri -  odical,   Le Parnasse contemporain   (The Modern  Parnassus), in which they showed their love for  Greek and Roman art and cultue.  See also:   apollo; delphi; deucalion; dio -  nysus; muses  parsley   An   herb   in   ancient   Greek   and  Roman ritual, associated with death and resur -  rection. The Greeks and Romans often decked  their tombs with parsley wreaths. The ancient  Greek expression “to be in need of parsley”  was a way of saying someone was close to  death.   According   to   Greek   mythology,   the  parsley   herb   sprang   up   from   the   blood   of  the hero Achemorus when he was slain by a  great serpent. The Nemean Games were held  in Achemorus’s honor, with foot, horse, and  chariot races, boxing, and wrestling. Wreaths  of parsley crowned the winners. In Homer’s  Odyssey   Calypso’s magic island is covered with  parsley, which connects the herb with sexual  love. In English folklore, it was believed that  babies were found in parsley beds. The magical  qualities of parsley are referred to in the refrain  to Simon and Garfunkel’s song “Scarborough  Fair”: “parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme.”  See also:   calypso; rosemary; sage  Parthenope   (maiden face)   In Greek myth-  ology, one of the Sirens, daughter of Achelous  and Calliope; sister of Ligeia and Leucosia.  She drowned herself after she failed to lure  Odysseus to his death. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book  12) tells of her fate.  See also:   achelous calliope; ligeia; odys -  seus;   odyssey, the;   sirens  Parthenos   (virgin,   unwed)   In   Greek   cult,  title frequently applied to Athena as virgin  goddess but also used for other female deities.  The Parthenon, on the highest part of the  Acropolis in Athens, was dedicated to Athena  Parthenos. Begun in 447   b.c.e.,   the temple was  dedicated in 438; it was designed by Callicrates  and Ictinus and contained what are now called  the Elgin Marbles as well as the statue of the  goddess Athena by Phidias (c. 490–415   b.c.e. ).  The temple became a Christian church dedi -  cated to the Virgin Mary; later it was converted  into a mosque.  See also:   athena; elgin marbles  partridge   Fowl-like bird with a short beak,  short legs, and a short tail. In Greek mythology  the partridge, symbolic of fecundity and fertil -  ity, is sacred to both Aphrodite and Zeus. In  ancient Hebrew folk belief the female partridge  was believed to steal the eggs of other birds  (Jer. 17:11). An early Christian work,   The Acts  of John,   sees the bird as a symbol of the soul,  but St. Ambrose, writing later, sees it as the  devil. Ambrose’s concept is reflected in a 12th-  century Latin bestiary that cites the bird for  its evil sexual habits: a male partridge coupled  with another male.  See also:   ambrose, st.; aphrodite; beast  epic; zeus  Paruksti   (the wonderful)   In North American  Indian mythology (Pawnee), storm and thun -  der personified as all of the life-giving and self-  renewing powers of the earth.  Pasiphaë   (she who shines for all)   In Greek  mythology, daughter of the Titan sun god Helios  and Perseis (Perse); sister of Aeetes, Circe, and  Perses; married to King Minos of Crete; moth -  er of Acacallis, Androgeus, Ariadne, Catreus,  Deucalion, Euryale, Glaucus, Lycastus, Phaedra,  and   Xenodice.   She   was   also   mother   of   the  Minotaur by the white bull. Minos had requested  from the sea god Poseidon a magnificent bull for  sacrifice. The god sent a white bull, but Minos  substituted another. In revenge, Poseidon had  Pasiphaë fall in love with the bull. Daedalus  built a wooden cow for Pasiphaë to hide in while  having sexual intercourse with the white bull.  Their offspring was the Minotaur, half bull and  half man. The monster, which fed on human  flesh, was hidden in a labyrinth constructed by  762   parsley

=== 페이지 780 ===
Daedalus. Pasiphaë bewitched Minos so that all  of his mistresses died after having sexual inter -  course with him. Pasiphaë appears in Boccaccio’s  Genealogy of the Gods,   in which she is a symbol of  the soul, while her husband is human. She also  appears in Henri de Montherlant’s   Pasiphaé   with  illustrations by Henri Matisse in 1944 and Jean  Cocteau in 1948.  See also:   ariadne; daedalus; helios; minos;  minotaur; phaedra; poseidon; titans  Passover   (Pesah)   In Judaism, feast held from  the 15th to the 22nd of Nisan (13–20 April)  commemorating the Exodus of the Hebrews  from bondage in Egypt; it is one of the three  seasonal festivals, the others being Shavouth  (Pentecost), also called the Feast of Weeks, and  Sukkoth, or Feast of Booths. The narrative and  ritual of the feast is told in the Book of Exodus  (chaps. 12–15). Originally, according to some  biblical scholars, at the first full moon in the first  month of spring it was the custom for a lamb or  goat to be slaughtered at twilight, then eaten  at a common meal in the middle of the night  along with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.  This was to be done in haste. Whatever por -  tion remained uneaten was to be burned before  daybreak. As soon as the slaughtering had been  The First Passover   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Passover   763

=== 페이지 781 ===
done, a bunch of hyssop was dipped into the  lamb’s or goat’s blood and used to sprinkle a  few drops on the lintels and doorposts of each  house. This ritual was known as   pesah.   It was  followed by a Feast of Unleavened Bread, dur -  ing which no fermented food was allowed to be  eaten. It is believed that the Exodus from Egypt  coincided with the traditional   pesah   ceremony  and was later incorporated into the Hebrew  feast. It is now believed by most biblical schol -  ars that not all of the tribes of Israel went down  to Egypt nor came out of it at the Exodus.  The main ceremony of Passover is the   Seder  (order of service or formal procedure), in which  various foods are eaten and the narrative, called  Haggadah   (recital) of the Exodus is recalled.  Some of the foods eaten are   matzah   (unleav -  ened bread), bitter herbs (e.g., horseradish), and  haroseth   (a mixture of chopped apples, raisins,  nuts, and cinnamon), recalling the mortar used  to build the cities of Pithol and Rameses by the  Hebrews for their Egyptian masters. Wine, at  least four cups, is also drunk during the cer -  emony. At the conclusion of the meal an extra  cup of wine is filled for Elijah the prophet, who  will come, it is believed, on Passover night to  herald the final redemption of Israel. The door  of the house is flung open to allow the prophet  to enter. Some biblical scholars believe that  Jesus was celebrating the Passover at the Last  Supper, though many others believe it was a  simple Jewish meal. In the liturgy (Mass) of  the Holy Eucharist in Roman and Anglican  churches, the priest says “Christ, our Passover  is sacrificed for us,” and the people answer with  “Therefore let us keep the feast.” This is based  on Paul’s writing in 1 Corinthians (5:7–8).  See also:   elijah; sukkoth  Patala   In Hindu mythology, collective name  for the lowest region of the underworld, inhab -  ited by Nagas. It consists of Atala, Sutala, Vitala,  Tatala, Mahatala, Rastala, and Patala. In contrast  to most underworlds Patala is a place filled with  sensual gratification, not punishment.  See also:   nagas  Patrick, St.   (noble man)   (c. 373–464)   In  Christian legend, Apostle of Ireland. Feast,  17 March.  Part of the biography of St. Patrick is sup -  plied by the saint himself in   The Confession of  Saint Patrick,   which is considered authentic by  most scholars. In the   Confession   Patrick tells  us that his father’s name was Calpurnius and  that he collected taxes for the Romans. Patrick  lived with his family on a farm that was raided  by Pictish pirates when he was 16. He was  captured and carried off to Ireland, where he  was sold as a slave. He eventually escaped and  returned to his parents in Britain. Some time  later he left to study for the priesthood in Gaul  under St. Martin of Tours. He rose to the rank  of bishop and was sent to convert the Irish.  The legends surrounding the saint’s activi -  ties in Ireland are numerous. The most famous  legend is that he drove all of the snakes out of  St. Patrick   (Currier and Ives)  764   Patala

=== 페이지 782 ===
Ireland. When St. Patrick ordered the snakes  into the sea, one of the older reptiles refused  to obey. St. Patrick made a box and invited the  serpent to enter, pretending it was a place for  the creature to rest. The serpent said the box  was too small, but St. Patrick said it was large  enough. The serpent kept insisting it was too  small, while St. Patrick said it was just right.  Eventually   the   serpent   entered   the   box   to  prove his point, and Patrick closed the lid and  threw the box into the sea.  A tale recorded in   The Golden Legend,   writ -  ten   in   the   13th   century,   tells   how   Patrick  “traced a wide circle with his staff, and a very  deep pit opened within it. And it was revealed  to Patrick that the pit was the opening to a pur -  gatory, and that those who chose to go down in  it could expiate their sins, and would be spared  their purgatory after death.”  In actuality, St. Patrick’s purgatory was a  small cave on the island of Lough Derg, a lake  near Pettigoe in Donegal. St. Patrick had the  walls painted with various scenes of torment  to instill fear in those who visited the cave.  The cave became a place of pilgrimage for  those who wanted to experience the pains of  Purgatory and hell in this life, to avoid them in  the next. Pilgrims would spend nine days fast -  ing as part of the ritual. Henry of Saltrey tells  how Sir Owain visited it. The hero Fortunatus  also was supposed to have been to the place.  The cave was blocked on St. Patrick’s day in  1497 by orders of the pope. Calderón’s play   El  Purgatorio de San Patricio   deals with the legend.  In art St. Patrick is usually depicted banishing  the serpents and with a shamrock leaf. When  he explained the Trinity to the heathen priests  on the hill of Tara, he used the shamrock as his  symbol.  See also:   fortunatus;   golden legend, the;  pied piper of hamelin; snakes  Patroclus   (Patrocles) (glory of the father)   In  Greek   mythology,   friend   and   cousin   of  Achilles; son of Menoetius and Periopis or  Sthenele. Patroclus was killed by the Trojan  hero Hector, who in turn was killed by Achilles  in revenge. Twelve Trojan nobles were sac -  rificed on Patroclus’s funeral pyre. In post-  Homeric literature, it was taken for granted  that Patroclus and Achilles were lovers, though  there is no trace of that relationship in the  Iliad.   In later Greek mythology, it was said that  his ashes were mixed with those of Achilles.  Both were worshipped on the White Island as  semideities. The funeral games of Patroclus  form book 23 of Homer’s   Iliad.   Patroclus also  appears in Ovid’s   Metamorpheses   (book 13) and  Shakespeare’s   Troilus and Cressida.  See also:   achilles;   hector;   iliad, the;   ovid  Paul, St.   (small, little)   (first century)   In the  Bible, N.T., Apostle to the Gentiles. Patron of  tent makers, weavers, saddlers, basket weav -  ers, theologians, and workmen’s associations.  Invoked in stormy weather on the ocean and as  protection against snakebite. Patron of many  countries and cities such as London, Rome,  Malta, Frankfurt, and Berlin. Feast, 29 June.  Nearly all of the original materials for the  life of St. Paul are contained in the Acts of the  Apostles and in his Epistles, or letters, in the  New Testament. Added to these biblical works  is the apocryphal   Acts of St. Paul,   written in the  latter half of the second century, which gives  legends not contained in the biblical works  (though it also covers those with a romantic  interpretation) and   The Golden Legend,   written  Patroclus’s Funeral Pyre   (John Flaxman)  Paul, St.   765

=== 페이지 783 ===
in the 13th century, which incorporates the  earlier works.  Paul was born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia,  Asia Minor, about 1   b.c.e.   His Jewish name  was Saul, and his Latin name, to which as a  Roman citizen he was entitled, was Paul. The  latter was used exclusively after he became the  Apostle to the Gentiles. Of his parents we know  nothing, except that his father was of the tribe  of Benjamin (Phil. 3:5) and a Pharisee (Acts  23:6). Paul dictated his letters in Greek. He  was sent to Jerusalem for his education “at the  feet of Gamaliel,” one of the most eminent of  all Doctors of the Law. As was the custom with  rabbis, Paul also learned a trade, tent making.  Saul was yet a “young man” (Acts 7:58) when  St. Stephen was stoned to death. Among those  who disputed with Stephen were some “of them  of Cilicia.” Paul held the cloaks of those who  stoned Stephen while he was witnessing the act  of murder. St. Augustine believed that when  Paul saw St. Stephen pray for his enemies the  seeds of his conversion to Christ were planted.  At first, however, Paul wished to pursue this  new group of Christians and punish them by  reporting them to the Jewish high priest. On a  mission to Damascus to arrest some Christians  and bring them to Jerusalem for trial, the deci -  sive event in his life occurred. His conversion  is told three times in the Acts of the Apostles  (9:1–10; 22:5–16; and 26:12–18). According to  these accounts Paul saw a great light and heard  the words, “Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou  Me?” In reply to the question, “Who art thou,  Lord?” Paul heard, “I am Jesus, Whom thou  persecutest.” Paul was then blinded for some  time. Soon afterward he received baptism and  the imposition of hands from Ananias (Acts  9:17) and then left for Arabia (Gal. 1:17). He  then went on three important missionary jour -  neys and returned to Jerusalem. He was met by  a hostile mob, who accused him of transgression  of the law of Moses. He was beaten by the mob  and rescued by Roman soldiers, who put him in  protective custody (Acts 21:27–36). After a time  he was sent to Rome for trial (he was a Roman  citizen). On the way he was shipwrecked on  Malta, where he miraculously escaped being  bitten by a poisonous snake. The Acts of the  Apostles ends with the statement that St. Paul  remained in captivity in Rome for two years.  The rest of his life is not told us. Christian leg -  end, however, has supplied the remainder.  According to   The Golden Legend,   “When  Paul came to Rome, Nero’s reign had not as  yet been confirmed.” When Nero heard that  Paul and the Jews were quarreling about Jewish  law and Christian faith, he paid so little atten -  tion to Paul that the saint was free and could  go   “wherever   he   wished   and   could   preach  without obstacles.” Paul became well known as  a preacher. One day “Nero’s cup-bearer” and  one of his favorites, named Patroclus, climbed  up onto a window ledge so he could hear Paul  preach. He fell asleep, fell out of the window,  and   was   killed.   Paul   thought   Nero   would  grieve for him, so he asked that the body of  The conversion of St. Paul  766   Paul, St.

=== 페이지 784 ===
the young man be brought to him. “When the  corpse was lying in front of Paul he awakened  him and sent him to the Emperor.” Nero,  however, was very upset that his old lover  returned and had him, along with others who  now professed belief in Christ, imprisoned. He  also had Paul handcuffed and brought before  him. Paul was freed, however, after the Roman  mob threatened Nero, but he was brought  again before the emperor, who accused Paul of  being a magician. “Behead this deceiver. Make  an end to this criminal,” Nero cried. Paul was  beheaded. “When his head was severed from  his body .   .   . there flowed a stream of milk”  from his neck. Paul’s ghost then appeared to  Nero, who became so terrified that “he became  mad and no longer knew what to do.”  The scene in St. Paul’s life that is most  usually painted is the Conversion of St. Paul.  Among the most famous works are those of  Peter Brueghel, painted in 1567, Caravaggio,  and Jacopo Tintoretto’s fantastic canvas in the  National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.  Rembrandt painted   Paul in Prison   in 1627, and  Giotto painted   The Beheading of St. Paul   about  1311. In many paintings and sculptures St. Paul  is shown with a sword. If placed downward  it symbolizes his death; if placed upward, his  Paul’s Arrives at Rome   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Paul, St.   767

=== 페이지 785 ===
preaching. Often he carries a book, the symbol  of the Epistles in the New Testament. His physi -  cal features were described in the   Acts of Paul   by  a man named Titus, who had personally seen  the saint. He was “small, bald, had bowlegs but  a strong body, with eyebrows meeting and with  a slightly bent but graceful nose, and at times  he looked like a human being and then again he  had the face of an angel.” Sholem Asch’s novel  about St. Paul, entitled   The Apostle,   has a major  portion devoted to Paul’s Jewish background.  See also:   augustine, st.;   golden legend,  the;   stephen, st.  Paul Bunyan   In American folklore, giant  lumberjack of the Great Lakes and the Pacific  Northwest. Various places claim Paul Bunyan  as   their   own:   Maine,   Michigan,   Minnesota,  Oregon, and the Canadian woods. As a baby  Paul grew so fast that his father could not keep  making cradles to fit him. At one month Paul  was 20 feet tall and still growing. Tired of his  parents’ arguing, he took his cradle and left  home to begin a life of adventure as a lum -  berjack. Stories deal with the large size of his  camps; the size and eating habits of Babe the  Blue Ox; and the creation of American geogra -  phy. Paul dragged a spiked pole behind him to  create the Grand Canyon, and a leak in Babe’s  water   trough   started   the   Mississippi   River.  Among Paul’s companions are Hot Biscuit Slim,  a cook; Little Merry, who got the food; Johnny  Inkslinger, the camp secretary; Shanty Boy, who  could sing any song; and Galloping Kid, who  gave up being a cowboy to be with Paul.  Folklore scholars question whether Paul Bun -  yan is true oral folklore. There is a trickle of oral  tradition associated with Old Paul, but he enters  print in an article written by James McGillivray  for the Detroit   News-Tribune   of 24 July 1910,  titled “The Round River Drive.” He later sums  up his acquaintance with Paul with this state -  ment: “My first knowledge of such a lumber  camp character now known as Paul Bunyan came  to me when I was scaling logs at the logging  camp of Rory Frazer, twenty-two miles east of  Grayling on the north branch of the Au Sable  river. I was thirteen years of age, but big, like an  adult man.   .   .   . The men had a lounging shanty  by themselves, removed from Rory’s domicile,  and hardly an evening went by that some lum -  berjack did not bring out some new angle on  the prowess of a mythical ‘Paul Bunyan.’ I had  never heard the name before, despite the fact  that I lived in the renowned lumbermill area of  Oscoda-Au Sable, twin towns that led the world  in sawmill production back in the eighties.”  The early oral tradition is supported in a  diary kept by Edward O. Tabor, a teacher who  worked as a lumberjack during the summer in  Palmer Junction, Oregon. He records a few  fragmentary tales about Paul and his blue ox.  By 1914 W. B. Laughead produced a small  booklet,   Paul Bunyan and His Big Blue Ox,   a  pamphlet for the Red River Lumber Company,  originally located in Minnesota but relocated  to California. Laughead wrote: “It should be  stated that the names supporting characters,  including the animals, are inventions by the  writer of this version.” The oral chronicles did  not, in his hearing, call any of the characters by  name except Paul Bunyan himself.  Both   Douglas   Malloch’s   narrative   poem  “The Round River Drive,” which appeared in  The American Lumberman,   and Carl Sandburg’s  “Who Made Paul Bunyan?” in   The People, Yes  deal with Paul’s legend, as did Virginia Tunvey,  Father Shepard, James Stevens, Glen Rounds,  Dell J. McCormick, and Louis Untermeyer.  Robert Frost’s poem “Paul’s Wife” deals with  the hero’s wife. During the 1950s Richard M.  Dorson coined the term   fakelore   in his writings  about Paul Bunyan in an attempt to distinguish  between living oral traditions and individuals’  spurious, synthetic writings consciously con -  trived and usually for financial gain.  See also:   babe, the blue ox; fakelore; joe  magarac; mike fink; pecos bill  Pausanias   (second   century   c.e. )   Greek  travel author of the   Description of Greece,   which  covers topography, legends, myths, rituals, and  768   Paul Bunyan

=== 페이지 786 ===
histories of various places. It is an invaluable  source for many myths and lost artworks. The  10 books are (1) Attica and Megara; (2) Argolis,  and others; (3) Laconia; (4) Messenia; (5–6)  Elis and Olympia; (7) Achaia; (8) Arcadia; (9)  Boeotia; and (10) Phocis and Delphi.  pawang   (wizard)   In   the   Malay   Peninsula,  wizard, medicine man, or magician. The office  is   usually   hereditary,   or   the   appointment   is  practically confined to the members of one  family. The   pawang   or   bomor   is the intermediary  between man and the supernatural. He attends  new projects and important rites, such as those  connected with birth, marriage, and death. He  also acts as a spirit medium and pronounces  oracles while in a trance; he possesses consider -  able political influence; he occasionally practices  austerities; and he observes some degree of chas -  tity. A related term,   pantang,   is used for anything  that is forbidden or taboo in the culture.  Pawang   Pukat   In   Malayan   mythology,   a  wizard who was turned into a porpoise. Once  there was a Pawang Pukat who had bad luck  all of the time. He resolved to use magic to  change his fortune. One day, having caught  nothing, he asked his friends to collect an  immense quantity of mangrove leaves in their  boat. He carried the leaves out to the fishing  ground, scattered them on the surface of the  water, together with a few handfuls of parched  and saffron-stained rice, and repeated a series  of spells over them.  The next time he went fishing, the leaves  had been transformed into fish of all shapes and  sizes, and an immense haul was the result. The  fishing wizard gave directions to have all the  proceeds divided among his family and debtors.  Then, without warning, he plunged into the  sea, reappearing as a porpoise.  Pax   (peace)   In Roman mythology, goddess of  peace; equivalent to the Greek goddess Eirene;  also associated with Salus and Concordia by  the Romans. Her cult became popular during  the reign of Augustus Caesar, and her most  famous monument was the Ara Pacis, a large  altar dedicated on 30 January, 9   b.c.e.,   by the  Roman   Senate   to   commemorate   Augustus’s  safe return from Gaul and Spain. The feast of  Pax was held 3 January.  See also:   eirene  Paynal   (Paynalton)   (he who hastens)   In an  Aztec rite, name given to the man who played  the   part   of   the   war   god   Huitzilopochtli.  According   to   Fray   Bernardino   de   Sahagún  in   Historia general de las cosas de Nueva España  (1570–1582), this deputy god “had to go per -  sonally to summon men so that they might go  forthwith to fight the enemy.” When Paynal  died he was honored by the people.  See also:   huitzilopochtli  peach   A fruit tree. In China the peach stands  for immortality and springtime. The Chinese  god of longevity is often portrayed emerging  from a peach. In European Christian tradition,  the peach is a sign of salvation, often appearing  in paintings of the Virgin and Child.  See also:   momotaro  peacock   The   male   peafowl,   having   long,  spotted, iridescent tail feathers that can be  spread out like a fan. In world mythology and  folklore the peacock is sometimes a symbol  of pride and vanity. In   Henry VI, Part I   (3.3)  Shakespeare writes:  Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while  And like a peacock sweep along his tail;  We’ll pull his plumes and take away his  train.  Shakespeare knew the Greek myth of the ori -  gin of the peacock’s colorful tail feathers. Hera,  the wife of Zeus, sent the hundred-eyed giant  Argos to watch Io, a mistress of Zeus who had  been transformed into a heifer. Zeus, in the  guise of a woodpecker, led the god Hermes to  slay the giant. Hera, unable to take revenge on  peacock   769

=== 페이지 787 ===
either Hermes or Zeus, contented herself with  taking the giant’s eyes and placing them in the  tail of her favorite bird, the peacock, which  made the bird quite proud.  In Buddhist mythology the peacock is a  symbol of vanity but also a symbol of compas -  sion and watchfulness. In Chinese mythology  and folklore the peacock is a symbol of rank,  beauty, and dignity and was an emblem of  the Ming Dynasty. In Hindu mythology the  peacock is the mount of Brahma, Kama, and  Skanda and emblem of Sarasvati.  In Christian symbolism the peacock’s tail  was sometimes used as the All-Seeing Eye of  the Church. It also symbolized immortality of  the soul since it was believed that the peacock’s  flesh did not decay. St. Augustine wrote in   The  City of God : “Who except God, the Creator  of all things, endowed the flesh of the dead  peacock with the power of never decaying.”  Christian legend says the saint experimented  with a dead peacock and found this to be true.  In early Christian art two peacocks facing each  other was symbolic of the souls of the faithful  drinking from the Fountain of Life.  In   Islamic   folklore   the   peacock   was   the  original guardian of the Gates of Paradise,  but it ate the devil, who then, inside the bird,  entered Paradise and worked the fall of Adam  and Eve. In Persian mythology two peacocks  facing on either side of the Tree of Life sym -  bolize man’s dual nature of good and evil.  See also:   adam and eve; augustine, st.;  brahma; hermes; hera; io; kama; skanda;  woodpecker; zeus  Pecos Bill   In American folklore, a tough  Western hero who was the subject of many  adventures. Edward O’Reilly created the figure  of Pecos Bill for the   Century   magazine in 1923.  After the hero had killed “all the Indians and  bad men,” as one tale says, he headed West.  First, he encountered a 12-foot snake, which he  killed, and then a big mountain lion, which he  used as his riding mount to replace his wounded  horse. When he arrived at a cowboy campsite,  he grabbed a handful of beans and crammed  them into his mouth, then he grabbed the cof -  feepot to wash them down.  He said, “Who in the hell is boss around  here, anyway?”  “I was,” said a big fellow about seven feet  tall, “but you are now, stranger.”  Other legends tell how he first invented  roping. He had a rope that reached from the  Rio Grande to the Big Bow, and he would  amuse himself by throwing a loop up in the sky  and catching buzzards and eagles. He could also  rope bears, wolves, and panthers. The first time  he saw a train he thought it was some varmint,  and he threw his rope around it and brought it  to a halt. There are at least two accounts of his  death. One tale says he died laughing when he  saw a Boston man dressed up in “a mail-order  cowboy outfit,” and another tale says he “died  of   solemncholy”   when   he   heard   a   country  lawyer talk about keeping “inviolate the sacred  traditions of the old west.”  Pecos Bill was depicted on a box of Kel -  logg’s Cocoa Krispies cereal, and Walt Disney  featured him in the 1948 film   Melody Times.  See also:   fakelore; joe magarac; mike fink  Pedro the Cruel   (1334–1369)   In medieval  history and legend, king of Castile and León,  who appears in numerous Spanish ballads. Don  Pedro was popular with the people but hated by  the nobles. Legend credits him with the death  of his wife, Queen Blanche, and the murder of  her three brothers. When Pedro died in battle,  his head was cut off and his remains buried.  Later they were disinterred by his daughter,  the wife of the English John of Gaunt, and  deposited in Seville.  See also:   ballad  Pegasus   (of the springs)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a winged horse who sprang from the blood  of the slain Gorgon Medusa when her head  was cut off by the hero Perseus. Bellerophon,  another   Greek   hero,   captured   the   winged  horse with the aid of a golden bridle given  770   Pecos Bill

=== 페이지 788 ===
him by Athena when she encountered Pegasus  drinking   from   the   Pierian   spring.   With  Pegasus’s aid Bellerophon killed the monster  Chimera. When Pegasus’s hoof touched the  earth, the magical spring Hippocrene gushed  forth.   Bellerophon,   becoming   overly   ambi -  tious,   tried   to   reach   Mount   Olympus   on  Pegasus, but Pegasus knew better and threw  his rider. Finally, Zeus gave Pegasus a home  on Mount Olympus. Homer’s   Iliad   (book 6),  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 4), Horace’s   Odes  IV   (11.27), Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (1.9.21),  Shakespeare’s   King   Henry   Part   I   (4.1.109),  Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (book 7.4), Pope’s   Essay  on Criticism   (1.150), and Schiller’s   Pegasus im  Joche   all deal with the mythical animal.  See also:   athena; bellerophon; chimera;  gorgons;   iliad, the;   ovid; perseus; zeus  Peklo   In Slavic mythology, a name for the  underworld, the land of the dead. The name  apparently comes from   pech’   (to bake). The  word suggests the warmth of paradise, not the  heat of hell.  Peko   (Pekko)   In Finno-Ugric mythology, a  barley god worshipped by the Estonians. Peko’s  image, made of wax, was the common property  of the community, with each farm having the  privilege of hosting the god’s image for a year.  For Peko’s feast (which was held at Whitsuntide)  a special beer was brewed, and prayers were  offered to the god, calling on “Peko, our god,  shepherd our herds,” to “look after our horses,  protect also our corn from snow, from hail!” The  image of the god was then left at the feast, and a  wrestling contest took place outside. The person  Pegasus  Peko   771

=== 페이지 789 ===
who was first bruised was then chosen the guard -  ian of the god for the next year.  See also:   whitsunday  Pele   In   Polynesian   mythology,   Hawaiian  volcanic goddess who lives in the crater of  Kilauea on Hawaii.  In some myths Pele is said to have come  to Hawaii from Tahiti, fleeing from her sister,  whose husband she had seduced. In another  account she is said to have fled from a flood,  and a third version says she simply liked to  travel. A sister, Hi’iaka, is Pele’s constant com -  panion. When Pele settled at Kilauea she fell in  love with a young chief, Lohiau, from Kana’i.  She told him she would send someone to fetch  him in three days. Back at her volcano home,  she instructed her sister Hi’iaka to fetch her  husband. When Hi’iaka arrived she discovered  that Lohiau had died of a broken heart, but she  caught his fleeing spirit, placed it back in his  body, and brought him to her sister.  However, during this delay Pele had become  so jealous of her sister that she caused a lava  stream   to   destroy   Hopoe,   her   sister’s   close  friend. Finally, the two sisters played a game  of kilu (similar to quoits) to determine who  would have the love of Lohiau. Hi’iaka won,  but Pele was not happy and tried to kill the  couple.   Hi’iaka’s   magic   protected   her   from  Pele’s flames, but Lohiau was destroyed, only  to be restored once again to life by Hi’iaka’s  magic.  Peleus   (muddy)   In Greek mythology, king  of the Myrmidons and an Argonaut; son of  Aeacus, king of Aegina and Endeis; husband  of the sea nymph Thetis; father of Achilles. In  Catullus’s poem 64,   Peleus and Thetis,   it was at  Peleus’s marriage feast that Eris (discord) threw  an apple with the inscription “for the fairest”  into the gathering and caused a dispute among  the goddesses for possession of the apple. That  dispute led to the Judgment of Paris and the  Trojan War. Homer’s   Iliad   (book 9), Euripides’  Andromache,   Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library),  and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11) all refer to  Peleus or tell his tale.  See also:   achilles; aeacus; apple of dis -  cord; myrmidons; thetis  pelican   A large, web-footed, fish-eating bird  having a large bill with a distensible pouch. In  medieval Christian belief the pelican was a sym -  bol of a pious, self-sacrificing creature identified  with Christ. St. Jerome writes that the pelican was  known to restore life to its dead young by shed -  ding its own blood after the offspring had been  killed by a serpent. The saint then explained that  the serpent was the devil; the offspring, mankind  trapped in sin; and the pelican, Christ, who shed  his blood to save mankind. Dante’s   The Divine  Comedy   calls Christ   nostro pelicano   (our pelican).  See also:   jerome, st.  Pelican  772   Pele

=== 페이지 790 ===
Pelops   (muddy face)   In Greek mythology,  a hero, son of Tantalus and Atlas’s daughter,  Dione;   brother   of   Niobe;   father   of   Atreus  and Thyestes. When he was a child, his father  killed him, cooked him, and served him at  a   feast   of   the   gods   to   test   whether   a   god  would recognize human flesh. Only Demeter,  mourning the loss of Persephone, ate part of  Pelops’s shoulder bone. Hermes reconstructed  Pelops’s body, and Demeter gave him an ivory  shoulder to replace the one she had eaten. As  a man, Pelops fell in love with Hippodameia.  To win her hand, he had to enter a chariot  race against her father, Oenomaus. He won  by bribing Oenomaus’s charioteer, Myrtilus,  to remove the axle pin of Oenomaus’s chariot  just before the race. After his victory Pelops  killed Myrtilus, either to avoid paying him  or perhaps to silence the only witness to his  crime, by casting him in the ocean afterward  called Myrtoan, Myrtilus, or Oenomaus. His  tale appears in Pindar, Appollonius, Hyginus,  and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 6). The prepa -  rations for the chariot race appear on the east  pediment of the Temple of Zeus at Olympia.  See also:   atlas; atreus; demeter; hermes;  niobe; ovid; pelops; persephone; tantalus;  zeus  Penanngga   Lan   In   Malayan   mythology,  a vampire woman, often a woman who has  died in childbirth, returning to torment small  children with her horrible face and her entrails  hanging out.  See also:   la llorona; vampire  Penates   (of the inner chamber, storehouse)  In Roman mythology, household gods, origi -  nally spirits of the dead. Their images were  generally made of wax, ivory, silver, or earth,  and   offerings   of   wine,   incense,   fruits,   and  sometimes lambs, sheep, or goats were made  to them. When a family moved from one house  to another or from one place to another, it was  customary for the head of the family to remove  his Penates and establish them in the new  house even before he thought of his family’s  comfort.   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book   2)   tells   how  Aeneas, before fleeing burning Troy, placed the  Penates and Lares on his father’s back and then  carried his father on   his   back. Raphael painted  the scene of the flight.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the;   troy  Penelope   (with a web over her face, striped  duck)   In Greek mythology, the faithful wife of  Odysseus, daughter of Icarius and Periboea or  Asterodia. Penelope was mother of Telemachus.  When Odysseus sailed for the Trojan War,  Penelope was left to manage the household  affairs in Ithaca. In a short time she was hound -  ed by local suitors to remarry. She kept them at  bay by saying she first had to finish weaving a  shroud for her father-in-law, Laertes. Each day  she would weave, but at night she would undo  the work. Finally, after three years, she was  betrayed by one of her maids and forced to fin -  ish the piece. Athena, who protected Penelope  and her husband, told her to offer herself to  the suitor who could string the great bow of  Odysseus and shoot through a row of double-  headed axes. By this time Odysseus, who had  been gone some 20 years, had returned and was  disguised as a beggar in the hall. He not only  strung the bow but also killed the suitors. The  couple were then reunited. In Homer’s   Odyssey  (books 16, 17) Penelope is characterized as a  model of feminine virtue and chastity, being  called   “wise”   and   “prudent.”   In   later,   post-  Homeric legend, she maintained that charac -  terization, except in Peloponnesus, where it was  believed she had committed adultery.  There was a cult to Penelope associated  with a duck or other species of bird in east -  ern Arcadia, supposedly the site of her death.  Ovid’s   Heroides   (1)   and   Ars   amatoria   (3.15)  deal with her love for Odysseus. Shakespeare’s  Coriolanus   (1.3.92), Spenser’s “Sonnet XXIII,”  and W. S. Landor’s   Penelope and Pheido   all cite  or deal with Penelope. In opera the myth of  Penelope has been treated by Cimarosa, Fauré,  Galuppi, Piccinni, Jommelli, and Libermann.  Penelope   773

=== 페이지 791 ===
See also:   athena; homer; laertes; odys -  seus;   odyssey, the;   ovid; telemachus; troy  Penthesilea   (forcing   men   to   mourn)   In  Greek mythology, an Amazon, daughter of Ares  and Otrera, who fought for the Trojans during  the Trojan War after Achilles had killed Hector.  Penthesilea was killed by Achilles’ spear. When  he saw her great beauty, Achilles fell in love  with her and returned her body to King Priam  for proper funeral honors. Achilles’ display of  sentimentality   made   Thersites   ridicule   him,  and Achilles killed him. The myth is told in  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 12), and the   Aethiopia,   an anonymous  epic poem that continues Homer’s   Iliad,   writ -  ten about 775   b.c.e.   Hugo Wolf’s symphonic  poem   Penthesilea   is   based   on   Heinrich   von  Kleist’s poetic tragedy   Penthesilea.   Penthesilea’s  death is often portrayed in ancient Greek art.  It was one of the subjects painted by Panaenus  around Phidias’s statue of Zeus.  See also:   achilles; amazons; ares; hector;  iliad, the;   priam; thersites; troy  Pentheus   (grief)   In Greek mythology, king  of Thebes, son of Echion and Agave. Pentheus  refused to worship Dionysus and was killed when  the god inspired a frenzy in his worshippers,  the Bacchae. Believing Pentheus to be a wild  boar, they tore him to pieces. The first to attack  was   Agave   (highborn),   his   mother,   followed  by Pentheus’s two sisters, Ino and Autonoe.  Euripides’   The Bacchae,   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 4),  and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 3) tell the tale.  See also:   aeneid, the;   dionysus; ovid  Penelope  774   Penthesilea

=== 페이지 792 ===
Perahera   In Buddhism, a torchlight proces -  sion held every August at Kandy, where the  Tooth Relic of the Buddha is carried around  the city on the back of an elephant.  See also:   buddha, the  Perceval   (Percival,   Percivale,   Parsifal,   Par-  zival) (pierce valley)   In Arthurian legend, a  knight of the Holy Grail. Medieval versions  of his legend vary greatly in detail, but all tell  of a boy brought up in the forest ignorant of  knights and courtly manners. He goes to the  court of King Arthur, eventually becomes a  knight of the Round Table, and goes in quest  of the Holy Grail. He is allowed to view the  Grail because he is pure. Perceval makes his  first appearance in medieval legend in Chrétien  de Troyes’s   Perceval, le conte del Graal.   He then  appears in “Peredur, Son of Efrawg,” a tale  in   The Mabinogion.   His legend is also told in  Wolfram von Eschenbach’s long poem   Parzival  and Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur.   Wagner took most  of his material from Wolfram von Eschenbach’s  telling for his opera   Parsifal.  See also:   arthur; holy grail; round table  Perdix   (partridge)   In Greek mythology, cul -  ture hero, Athenian inventor of the saw, com -  pass, and potter’s wheel; son of Perdix, the sis -  ter of Daedalus. He was murdered by Daedalus  and transformed into a partridge. The story is  in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 8).  See also:   daedalus; ovid; perdix  Persephone   (bringer   of   destruction)   In  Greek mythology, goddess of the underworld;  a pre-Greek goddess, also called Kore (maiden)  and later Proserpina by the Romans; daugh -  ter of Demeter and Zeus. Pluto (Hades or  Dis), god of the underworld, wished to marry  Persephone, but his offer was refused by her  parents. One day while Persephone was out  gathering flowers, Pluto came in a chariot drawn  by four black horses and abducted Persephone,  taking her to his underground kingdom. Her  mother, Demeter, was wild with madness and  withdrew all plant life from the earth. Zeus,  fearful that all life would die without Demeter’s  help, sent Hermes to the underworld to retrieve  Persephone, but she had eaten pomegranates  (fruit of the underworld) and was compelled  to stay in Pluto’s kingdom for as many months  as the number of fruits she had eaten. When  Persephone returned to her mother, the earth’s  vegetation   was   restored.   Thus,   Persephone  became a goddess of fertility, of the birth and  death of vegetation. Under the name Kore  she was worshipped, along with Demeter and  Dionysus, at the Eleusinian Mysteries.  Ancient Greek art portrayed Persephone  as   a   beautiful   maiden.   Her   attributes   were  a horn of plenty, a sheaf of wheat, a cock  (the rising sun), a torch, and a pomegranate  (rebirth after death). Homer’s   Odyssey   (book  11), Hesiod’s   Theogony,   the Homeric Hymns Perceval   (Louis Rhead)  Persephone   775

=== 페이지 793 ===
Rape of Proserpina   (Persephone)   (Giuseppe Scolari)  776   Persephone

=== 페이지 794 ===
(not by Homer), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (books 4, 6,),  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 5), Shelley’s “Song  of Proserpine, While Gathering Flowers on  the Plain of Enna,” Tennyson’s “Demeter and  Persephone,” Swinburne’s “Hymn to Proser -  pine” and “The Garden of Proserpine,” George  Meredith’s “The Appeasement of Demeter,”  and Stravinsky’s   Perséphone   (1934) with libretto  by André Gide all have dealt with the myth.  See also:   aeneid, the;   demeter; dionysus;  hades; hermes; hesiod;   odyssey, the;   pome -  granate; zeus  Perseus   (destroyer)   In   Greek   mythology,  hero, son of Zeus and Danaë. When Perseus  was a baby, his grandfather Acrisius was warned  by   an   oracle   that   Perseus   would   kill   him  when he grew up. Fearful, he placed Danaë  and Perseus in a wooden box and had them  thrown into the sea. They were cast ashore  and found by Dictys, a fisherman on the island  of Seriphus. Dictys brought up Perseus and  took care of Danaë. After some time, when  Perseus was a young man, King Polydectes fell  in love with Danaë and wanted to marry her.  She refused, and Polydectes believed it was  because of Perseus, so he sent him on a quest to  retrieve the head of Medusa, the snake-haired  Gorgon. Polydectes hoped Perseus would die  in the quest. But Hermes, messenger of the  gods, helped Perseus, and the hero returned  with   Medusa’s   head.   When   the   giant   Atlas  refused Perseus shelter, Perseus showed him  the Gorgon’s head, and Atlas turned to stone.  As he flew home on the winged sandals given  him by Hermes, he saw Andromeda chained  to a rock by the sea, waiting to be devoured  by a sea monster. Perseus slew the monster  from the air with one blow and then married  Andromeda. At the wedding feast a former  suitor of Andromeda appeared and wished to  fight the hero. Perseus exposed Medusa’s head  to him, and the suitor and all of the guests  were turned to stone. Returning to his mother  with his bride, he found Danaë had hidden  herself from Polydectes’ sexual advances. Again  he exposed Medusa’s head at a feast held by  Polydectes and turned the king and his guests  to stone. Perseus put Dictys on the throne and  gave Medusa’s head to Athena for her shield,  the Aegis. At Argos, while attending funeral  games, Perseus accidentally killed his grand -  father, Acrisius, fulfilling the oracle. He was  killed by Megapenthes.  Cellini’s   Perseus   and Antonio Canova’s statue  Perseus with the Head of Medusa   are among the  best representations of the myth. Perseus’s myth  is found in Apollodorus’s   Bibliotheca   (Library);  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 4); William Morris’s  “Doom of King Acrisius,” part of   The Earthly  Paradise ; Charles Kinglsey’s   Heroes ; Nathaniel  Hawthorne’s   Wonder Book ; as well as works by  Tennyson, Browning, Hopkins, and Auden.  See   also:   acrisius;   andromeda;   apol -  lodorus; danaë; gorgons; hermes; zeus  Peter,   St.   (rock,   stone)   (First   century)   In  the   Bible,   N.T.,   “Prince   of   the   Apostles.”  Patron of bakers, bridge builders, butchers,  carpenters, clockmakers, fishermen, fishmon -  gers, glaziers, masons, net makers, potters, sta -  tioners, and shipwrights. Invoked against fever,  foot troubles, frenzy, snakebite, wolves, and for  a long life. Feast, 29 June.  Peter’s   original   name   was   Simon   (snub -  nosed). He was the son of a man named Jonas  or   John,   who   was   a   fisherman.   Peter   and  brother Andrew followed their father’s profes -  sion. They were partners with John and James,  the sons of Zebedee. Both Peter and Andrew  were followers of John the Baptist, but when  Jesus said, “Follow me, and I will make you  fishers   of   men,”   Peter   immediately   joined  him. He was always regarded as the first of the  Apostles and is so listed in every account given  in the New Testament as well as in legendary  sources. Peter appears in the most important  happenings in the life of Christ. He is pres -  ent at the raising of Jairus’s daughter (Luke  8:41–51), the Transfiguration (Matt. 17:1–2),  the Last Supper (Luke 22:8ff.), the Agony in  the Garden (Matt. 26:37–40), and the Resur -  Peter, St.   777

=== 페이지 795 ===
rection (John 24:12). It is Peter who catches  the fish with the coin in its mouth needed to  pay the tribute when Christ says, “Render unto  Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and unto  God the things that are God’s.”  The   high   position   of   Peter   among   the  Apostles both during Christ’s life and later  are summed up in the words Christ addresses  to him. “Thou art Peter [rock], and upon this  rock I will build my church: and the gates of  hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give  unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven:  and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall  be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt  loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.”  Yet in his high position (differently inter -  preted by Catholics and Protestants from the  text) Peter is also weak and sometimes blind to  Christ’s mission. He rejects the idea that Jesus  must suffer. Jesus is so angered by this that he  tells Peter, “Get thee behind me, Satan; thou art  an offence unto me; for thou savorest not the  things that be of God, but those that be of men.”  Toward the close of Christ’s ministry Peter’s role  becomes very prominent. At the Last Supper he  asks the reason Jesus is washing his disciples’ feet.  He also says he would never deny Christ, which  he does. He is reminded by the cock crowing.  Peter’s story is continued in the Acts of the  Apostles in the New Testament. In the first part  of the work Peter is clearly the leader of the  Apostles. Accompanied by his wife, he travels  to various cities bringing the Gospel. We are  not told, however, how he died, nor are we told  about a journey to Rome, where he and St. Paul,  according to legend, were martyred on the same  day. Christian legend, however, has supplied  what is lacking in the biblical accounts. The most  important legend concerns the magician Simon  Magus. The miracles of Peter were so superior  to any done by Simon Magus that the magician  fled to Rome. St. Peter followed him there.  Many years passed, and Simon Magus became  a favorite of the emperor Nero. According to  The Golden Legend,   written in the 13th century,  Simon said he was the Son of God, who, if his  head were to be cut off, would rise again on the  third day. “Nero ordered the executioner to cut  off his head; but Simon, by his magic art, caused  the executioner to behead a ram, thinking the  while that he was beheading Simon himself.”  The magician then hid for three days, made his  appearance, and the emperor eventually put up a  statue to “the holy god Simon.” After some time  Peter and Simon came into a contest before the  emperor. The final feat was Simon’s journey to  heaven, “since the earth was no longer worthy  of him.” On the set day he climbed to the top of  a high tower and began his flight with a laurel  crown on his head. Nero called out to Peter to  look at the flight of Simon Magus. But Peter  called out, “Angels of Satan, who hold this man  up in the air, in the name of my master Jesus  Christ, I command you to hold him up no lon -  ger.” Simon was then dashed to the earth, “his  skull was split, and he died.”  When Rome was burning the Christians  asked Peter to flee for his safety because the  Christians were being blamed for the deed. As  he went along the Appian Way, he met Christ  walking toward Rome. He said, “Lord, whither  goest thou?” And Christ replied, “I go to Rome  to be crucified anew.” “To be crucified anew?”  asked Peter. “Yes,” said Christ. “Then, Lord, I  too return to Rome, to be crucified with thee.”  Peter, not being a Roman citizen like St. Paul,  was “condemned to die on the cross.” He asked  Christ giving the keys to St. Peter  778   Peter, St.

=== 페이지 796 ===
that he be crucified with his “head toward the  earth” and his feet pointing to heaven, for he said,  “I am not worthy to die as my master died.”  In Christian art, Peter is usually shown  holding the keys of heaven, sometimes a fish or  a cock. The number of art works dealing with  him is staggering. Among the most notewor -  thy are those of Giotto, Crivelli, Caravaggio,  Raphael,   Michelangelo,   Masaccio,   Giovanni  Bellini,   Quentin   Massys,   Hans   Holbein,  Rubens, Francisco de Zurbarán, Murillo, Fra  Bartolommeo, and El Greco. The location of  his tomb under the high altar of St. Peter’s  cathedral in Rome was verified in 1950.  See   also:   andrew, st.; apostle;   golden  legend, the;   john the baptist, st.; paul, st.;  simon magus  Peter Martyr, St.   (St. Peter of Verona) (stone,  rock)   (1205–1253)   In Christian legend, patron  saint of inquisitors and midwives. Venerated in  Verona, Italy. Feast, 29 April.  Peter   was   a   noted   Dominican   preacher  who hounded heretics and Jews and was finally  murdered by a group of hired assassins in the  forest on his way from Como to Milan. One of  the assassins struck him on the head with an ax  and then went in pursuit of Peter’s companion.  Peter Denies Christ   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Peter Martyr, St.   779

=== 페이지 797 ===
When the assassin returned, he found Peter  had written the Apostles Creed with his own  blood on the ground, or according to another  account, was reciting the creed aloud. In either  case, the murderer pierced Peter with a sword.  Peter Rugg   In American folklore, a man  who cannot die and spends his years in constant  wanderings. He does not age but rides around  in his buggy on New England roads around  Boston. William Austin’s tale   Peter Rugg, The  Missing Man   narrates the legend.  See also:   vanishing hitchhiker  Petra Loa   In Haitian voodoo, a group of  loa whose rites were introduced from Santo  Domingo by a man named Don Pedro. The  symbol of the Petra loa is a whip, suggesting  some connection to the imposition of slavery.  These loa have red eyes, and they make the  initiates writhe and grimace, especially when  the initiates fail to make payment to the loa  for their services. They are in contrast to the  benevolent and dignified Rada loa.  See also:   loa  Petro Simbi   In Haitian voodoo, a loa (dei -  fied spirit of the dead) of rain; patron of magi -  cians.   Petro   Simbi   is   both   benevolent   and  aggressive. Symbolized by a glowing iron rod  stuck upright in a charcoal fire, his color is red.  Sacrifices of goats and pigs are made to him.  See also:   loa; petra loa  Petrushka   The favorite archer who provides  the finest meat for the czar’s table. Once, when  he has no luck hunting, he spots a white dove  sitting in a tree. Petrushka shoots and wounds  the dove, but when he picks up the bird it speaks  to him and tells him that if he will spare his life,  Petrushka will receive a most wondrous reward.  Back at home, Petrushka places the dove on  the   windowsill,   where   it   falls   asleep.   When  Petrushka taps it on the wing, the bird instantly  becomes the most beautiful maiden in all Russia.  Masha the Dove Maiden, as she is called, says  they should marry, and Petrushka agrees. They  live quite happily, but Petrushka has only a hun -  dred rubles as his life savings. Masha tells her  husband to take the 100 rubles and buy her 100  skeins of silk. Petrushka does as his wife asks and  then goes to bed in the evening. The next morn -  ing, Masha has woven the silk into the most  beautiful carpet he has ever seen. She says that  Petrushka should take the carpet to the market  and accept whatever anyone offers him for it. At  the market, many people admire the work but  only the counselor of the czar makes an offer of  5,000 rubles. Petrushka accepts, and the coun -  selor takes the carpet back to the czar’s palace  and is paid 50,000 rubles for it. The counselor  decides to return to Petrushka’s house to pur -  chase more carpets, but when he knocks on the  door and Masha opens it, he is so struck by her  beauty that he cannot utter a word. Quickly he  rides back to the czar’s palace and tells him of  the beauty of Petrushka’s wife. The czar prom -  ises his counselor half of his kingdom if he can  get rid of Petrushka so that he can marry Masha.  The counselor is approached by a simple peas -  ant who asks for a goblet of wine in exchange  for telling him how to get rid of Petrushka. The  peasant then advises the counselor to tell the czar  to send Petrushka to the Underworld to see how  the czar’s father is faring down below. Petrushka  is threatened with death if he does not do as the  czar commands. Masha then tells Petrushka to  sleep soundly, and when he rises, she gives him  a golden ring that will roll along and guide him  to the Underworld. He should take the coun -  selor along, she advises, since the czar would  not believe him unless the report was verified by  the counselor. They set out and follow the ring  into the Underworld, where they meet an old  man pulling a cart filled with wood and goaded  along by two red-horned demons. Petrushka  recognizes the old man as the czar’s father and  asks to speak to him for a few minutes. The  demons agree, but only if the counselor will take  his place pulling the cart while they beat him.  Petrushka and the counselor return to the palace  and report on the meeting with the czar’s father.  780   Peter Rugg

=== 페이지 798 ===
The czar is disappointed to see Petrushka back  in his realm, but he has to believe his story when  he sees the scars the counselor has received from  the demons. Now the counselor has to devise  a new plan to get rid of Petrushka. Again the  peasant asks for a goblet of wine, then advises  the counselor to have the czar send Petrushka  to the Thrice-Ninth Kingdom, which is in the  Thrice-Ninth Land, where he is to capture Kot  Bayun, the talking cat, and bring him back. The  counselor reports this to the czar, and he decides  to send Petrushka out once again. Masha tells  her husband to sleep soundly and that she will  devise a plan for him. Before Petrushka leaves,  Masha gives her husband three hats, a pair of  pincers, and three metal rods. On approaching  the cat, Petrushka is to put on the three felt hats  and take the first metal bar in one hand and  the pincers in the other. The cat claws at him  fiercely and tears one hat after the other before  Petrushka catches the cat’s flaying leg in the  pincers. Then he beats the cat with the bar of  iron, but it soon breaks, as did the second one  of brass. The third bar gets very hot and bends  but does not break, and finally the cat begs for  mercy and promises to go with Petrushka to the  czar’s palace. The czar is skeptical and does not  believe the cat is really Kot Boyun, but when  Petrushka releases the cat, it bares its teeth, spits  and flies at the czar’s throat. Now the czar is  convinced and has to allow Petrushka to return  to his wife, but he is gravely disappointed and  tells the counselor that if he is not successful on  his third attempt, he will lose his head. Thus  the counselor once again seeks the help of the  old man, who promises to assist him only if he  again receives a goblet of wine. This time the  peasant advises the counselor to send Petrushka  to   I-Know-Not-Where,   with   instructions   to  come back with I-Know-Not-What. The czar  sends Petrushka out once again, and he makes  his way to the house of Baba-Yaga who helps  him by sending him to Babushka-Lyagushka-  Skakushka, the Grandmother Hopping Frog.  The grandmother frog leaps through the air and  lands in a foreign land, where she breaths out  slowly and soon returns to her normal size. She  informs Petrushka that they are now in I-Know-  Not-Where, and if he would go to the humblest  hut in the village and hide behind the stove,  there he will find I-Know-Not-What. In the  hut lives an old man who commands Nobody  to bring him food. A banquet soon appears,  and when the old man calls for wine, that, too,  appears. The old man eats and drinks his fill,  and Petrushka then creeps out from behind the  stove and asks Nobody to accompany him back  to the czar’s palace. On the way home, they are  approached by a robber with an enormous club  who asks for food and drink. Nobody supplies  the robber with a great banquet, and he is so  satisfied that he offers Petrushka his club if he  will give him Nobody in exchange. The club, all  by itself, would kill anyone its master orders it to  kill. Petrushka agrees, and the exchange is made.  He then walks a short distance on his way home.  He commands the club to kill the robber, which  it does, and then Petrushka possesses both the  club and Nobody. A short distance further the  way   home,   Petrushka   meets   another   robber  who carries a   gusli,   a stringed instrument, slung  over his shoulder. He, too, is hungry and is fed  by Nobody. This robber wants to exchange his  gusli   for Nobody, and tells Petrushka that it has  the power to create a great sea when the first  string is stroked, a fleet of ships with the second  string, and cannons that would fire on plucking  the third string. The agreement to exchange is  made, and the same fate awaits the second rob -  ber. On arriving back home, Petrushka finds  his door broken from the hinges and his wife  nowhere to be found. Soon a white dove circles  above and lights before him. The dove is Masha,  and she changes back into her human shape.  She says that she had to hide from the czar, and  thus Petrushka commands Nobody to build him  an impenetrable palace, which Nobody does  immediately. Soon the czar hears of this new  palace and asks a local woodsman who it belongs  to, only to learn that the owner is Petrushka.  Now the czar decides to rid himself once and  for all of Petrushka, and so he sends 10 men  Petrushka   781

=== 페이지 799 ===
to enter the palace and bring Petrushka out so  that he can kill him. When the men approach,  Petrushka sends the club out, and it beats the  czar’s men to death. Next the czar sends an  entire army, but Petrushka pulls out the   gusli  and plucks one string after the other until the  czar’s army is completely destroyed. The czar  is horrified and calls for a truce. Petrushka puts  his   gusli   away so that the fleet of ships and the  sea disappear, but then Petrushka tells the czar  that he should have his counselor put to death,  for it was he who had caused so much evil. The  counselor runs for his life, but Petrushka’s club  follows him and beats him to death. Thereafter,  Petrushka and the czar became close friends and  celebrate many banquets and festivals together.  See also:   baba-yaga; babushka-lyagushka-  skakushka; kot boyun  Phaedra   (bright   one)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, daughter of Minos and Pasiphae; sister  of   Acacallis,   Androgeus,   Ariadne,   Catreus,  Deucalion, Euryale, Glaucus, Lycastus, and  Xenodice; wife of Theseus; mother of Acamas  and Demophon; in love with Hippolytus, her  stepson. Phaedra married Theseus after the  death   of   Antiope,   his   previous   wife.   Being  much younger than Theseus, Phaedra fell in  love with her stepson Hippolytus, but the youth  rejected Phaedra’s advances. In retaliation for  the rejection Phaedra accused Hippolytus of  attempting to rape her and then hanged her -  self. Theseus banished Hippolytus and prayed  for vengeance on him, and Hippolytus was  then killed by Poseidon. Phaedra appears in  Euripides’   Hippolytus,   Seneca’s   Phaedra,   and  Ovid’s   Heroides   (4). Racine’s   Phèdre   was used  as the basis for the Jean Cocteau ballet with  music of Georges Auric. Others works using  Racine’s text were Ildebrando Pizetti’s opera  Phaedra   (1915) and a modern movie version  of the plot,   Phaedra,   (1961) starring Melina  Mercouri.  See   also:   acamas; androgeus; antiope;  catreus; demophon; deucalion; hippolytus;  minos; ovid; poseidon; theseus  Phaethon   (shining)   In   Greek   mythology,  son of Apollo or Helios, both sun gods, and  the nymph Clymene. Phaethon was laughed  at by his companions when he said he was the  son of Apollo. He went to Apollo and begged  to be allowed to drive Apollo’s sun chariot  across   the   heavens.   Reluctantly   consenting,  Apollo gave Phaethon his horses and chariot.  After a time Phaethon could not control the  chariot. It plunged to the earth and parched  Libya. Zeus, in response, killed the boy with  a thunderbolt. Phaethon fell into the Eridanus  or Po River and was transformed into a swan.  There his sisters, the Heliades, mourning him,  were transformed into willow trees and their  tears into drops of amber. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (books 1, 2) tell the myth in detail. Spenser’s  “Tears of the Muses” calls Phaethon “Phoebus  foolish sonne.” In Shakespeare’s   Two Gentlemen  of   Verona   (3.1.154–5)   the   Duke   compares  Valentine to Phaethon when he plans to elope  with Silvia: “Wilt thou aspire to guide the  heavenly   car   /   And   with   thy   daring   folly  burn the world?” Shakespeare also cites the  image of the falling Phaethon in   Richard II  (3.3.178–79). The Heliades appear in Andrew  Marvell’s poem “The Nymph Complaining for  the Death of Her Faun” (99–100). In music  Lully’s opera   Phaeton   (1683) and Saint-Saëns’  tone poem   Phaëton   (1873) deal with the myth.  In art Hans Rottenhammer’s   Fall of Phaeton  portrays the ride.  See also:   apollo; heliades; helios; ovid;  swan; zeus  Phaon   (shining)   In Greek legend, a boatman  of the Mytilene in Lesbos, loved by the poet  Sappho. Phaon rejected Sappho’s love, and as  a result she killed herself by leaping off a cliff  on the island of Leucas. Originally Phaon was  old and ugly, but he received from Aphrodite  a small box containing an ointment that made  him young and handsome. Ovid’s   Heroides   (15)  has a letter from Sappho to Phaon. David’s  painting of Sappho also pictures Phaon.  See also:   aphrodite; ovid  782   Phaedra

=== 페이지 800 ===
pharaoh   (great house)   In ancient Egypt, title  for the kings, who were believed to be incarna -  tions of Horus, the son of Osiris. When a pha -  raoh died he became Osiris, one with the god of  the dead. In the Bible the word   pharaoh   is used  as if it were a proper name. We have no evidence  as to which pharaoh is referred to in the story of  the Exodus from Egypt by the Hebrews.  See also:   bible (exodus); horus; osiris  Philip, St.   (lover of horses)   (first century)   In  the Bible, N.T., Apostle. Patron of hatters, pastry  cooks, Brabant, and Luxembourg. Feast, 1 May.  Born at Bethsaida, Philip was one of the  first men called by Jesus early in his ministry  at Bethany, beyond the Jordan where John was  baptizing (John 1:28). He was present with the  faithful disciples when they prayed in the upper  room   in   Jerusalem   after   Christ’s   Ascension  (Acts 1:12–14).  According to legend, Philip went to preach  in Scythia, where he worked for some 20 years.  Then, according to the account in   The Golden  Legend,   written in the 13th century but based  on earlier sources, he was taken by the pagans.  .   .   . which would constrain him to make  sacrifice to an idol which was called Mars,  their God, and anon under the idol issued  out a right great dragon, which forthwith  slew the bishop’s [king’s] son that appoint -  ed the fire for to make the sacrifice, and  the two provost also, whose servants held  St. Philip in iron bonds; and the dragon  corrupted the people with his breath that  they were all sick, and St. Philip said:  “Believe ye me and break this idol and set  in his place the cross of Jesu Christ and  after, worship ye it, and they that be here  dead shall revive, and all the sick people  shall be made whole.” And anon St. Philip  commanded the dragon that he should go  in to desert without grieving or doing any  harm to any person, and anon he departed.  (Caxton translation)  The pagan priests were upset by Philip’s  power, so they bound him on a cross and  stoned him to death, “and his body was wor -  shipfully buried there, and his two daughters  died long after him and were also buried, that  one on the right side, and the other on the left  side of the body of their father.”  When St. Philip is shown in art, alone or in  a series of Apostles, he is generally a man in the  prime of life, with a small beard and a benign  countenance. His attribute is a cross, some -  times a small one carried in his hand, a high  cross in the form of a T, or a tall staff with a  Latin cross at top. The cross symbol, according  to Jameson in   Sacred and Legendary Art,   may  “allude to his martyrdom; or to his conquest St. Philip   (Albrecht Dürer)  Philip, St.   783

=== 페이지 801 ===
over the idols through the power of the cross;  or, when placed on the top of the pilgrim’s staff,  it may allude to his mission among the barbar -  ians as preacher of the cross of salvation.”  See also:   apostle; dragon;   golden legend,  the;   mars  Philoctetes   (love of possessions)   In Greek  mythology, an Argonaut, male lover of Heracles,  great archer, son of Poeas and Demonassa.  Philoctetes joined the expedition against Troy.  On the way to the city he and his companions  landed on a small island to offer sacrifice to a  local goddess. In one account he was bitten by  a snake, in another he was scratched by one of  his own poisoned arrows. In either case, the  wound festered, and his companions left him  on the island of Lemnos, where he lived for  10 years. Near the close of the Trojan War the  Greeks captured the Trojan prophet Helenus,  who informed them that only if the bow and  arrows of Heracles were obtained could they  be victorious. The bow and arrows were in the  possession of Philoctetes, who had obtained  them when he lit Heracles’ funeral pyre on  Mount Oeta. Odysseus and Neoptolemus (or  Diomedes) were sent to Philoctetes to obtain  the   bow   and   arrows.   Only   when   Heracles  appeared, risen from the dead, did Philoctetes,  give   up   the   bow   and   arrows.   Machaon,   a  son of Asclepius, the god of healing, cured  Philoctetes’ wound. Philoctetes later founded  two   cities   in   Italy.   Homer’s   Iliad   (book   2),  Sophocles’   Philoctetes,   and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (books 9, 13) all deal with Philoctetes.  See also:   argonauts; asclepius; diomedes;  helenus; heracles; odysseus; troy  Philomela   (song   lover)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, sister of Procne; daughter of King Pandion  of   Athens   and   Zeuxippe.   Procne’s   husband,  Tereus, king of Thrace, raped Philomela and  then cut out her tongue so she could not speak.  However, the girl wove her sad tale on a tapes -  try and sent it to her sister Procne. As revenge,  the two sisters killed Itylus, the five-year-old  son of Tereus, and served the boy to the father  at dinner. During the dinner, Philomela threw  Itylus’s head on the table. The gods then trans -  formed Philomela into a nightingale, Tereus  into a hawk (or hoopoe), Procne into a swallow,  and Itylus into a pheasant (or sandpiper). Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 6) and Chaucer’s   Legend  of Good Women   narrate the myth. Other works  that have dealt with or referred to the myth are  Sir Philip Sidney’s “The Nightingale”; Edmund  Spenser’s   Virgils Gnat   (401–3); Shakespeare’s  Titus Andronicus,   in which part of the plot is  similar to the myth; Milton’s “Il Penseroso”  (56–62);   Matthew   Arnold’s   “Philomela”;  Swinburne’s “Itylus”; Oscar Wilde’s   The Burden  of Itylus ; and T. S. Eliot’s “Sweeney among the  Nightingales” and   The Waste Land.  See also:   chaucer; ovid  Phlegethon   (blazing)   In Greek mythology,  one of the five rivers of Hades, the underworld  in which those who have committed violence  against their families are cast until they are  forgiven. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 10) and Ovid’s  Metamorphoses   (book 15) mention the river. In  Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Inferno) it is one of the  three rivers of Hell (the others being Acheron  and Styx); sinners who have shed blood are  cast forever into this river of boiling blood.  In Plato’s dialogue   Phaedo,   the river is called  Pyriphlegethon (river of fire).  See also:   hades;   odyssey, the;   ovid  Phlegyas   (fiery)   In Greek mythology, king  of   Lapithae   and   son   of   Ares   and   Chryse.  Phlegyas   burned   Apollo’s   temple   at   Delphi  when he discovered that the god had raped  Coronis, Phlegyas’s daughter and the mother of  Aesculapius. Apollo killed Phlegyas and placed  him in the underworld with a massive stone  above his head, which constantly threatened  to fall on him. Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6), which  narrates Aeneas’s visit to the underworld, tells  of Phlegyas’s fate.  See also:   aeneid, the;   apollo; ares; delphi;  phlegyas  784   Philoctetes

=== 페이지 802 ===
Phocas, St.   (third century)   In Christian leg -  end of the Eastern Church, patron saint of  gardeners. Feast, 3 July.  Phocas lived outside the gate of Sinope, in  Pontus, where he cultivated a garden and gave  the produce to the poor. One night as he was at  supper, some strangers came in, and as he kept  open house, he invited them to stay. They said  they had come to find a certain Phocas, whom  they were hired to kill. Phocas said nothing.  He gave them a night’s lodging, and while they  were asleep he went out and dug a grave in  his garden among the flowers. In the morning  he told his guests that Phocas was found and  “insisted on their beheading him at the grave,  and they buried him there.” In Byzantine art  St. Phocas is presented as an aged man holding  a spade.  phoenix   In world mythology, fantastic bird  that is reborn from its own ashes. The stan -  dard ancient account of the phoenix is found  in Herodotus’   History   in which he says he  never saw the creature but was told that it  lived for 500 years, and upon its death was  reborn from its own ashes, which were lit in  the Temple of the Sun in Heliopolis, Egypt.  In Christian symbolism the phoenix became  a   sign   of   the   Resurrection   of   Christ.   St.  Clement, a convert of St. Paul, refers to the  phoenix in one of his letters to attest to the  truth of Christ’s Resurrection. A 12th-century  Latin bestiary also cites the phoenix as proof  of Christ’s Resurrection. “If the phoenix has  the power to die and rise again, why silly man  are you scandalized at the word of God.   .   .   .  who offered himself on the Altar of the cross  to suffer for us and on the third day rise  again?” (T. H. White translation). The phoe -  nix was later adopted as a sign over apothecary  shops because of the association of alchemists  with this bird.  See also:   clement, st.; paul, st.  Phyllis   (leafy)   In Greek mythology, daugh -  ter of King Lycurgus (or Phyleus or Sithon, all  kings of Thrace); sister of Dryas. She married  Demophon, son of the hero Theseus but was  loved by his brother Acamas, by whom she had  a son, Munitus. Phyllis killed herself and was  turned into an almond tree when Demophon  did not return to her after a month’s absence.  One of Ovid’s   Heroides   (2) and Chaucer’s   Legend  of Good Women   tell her tragic tale.  See   also:   acamas; chaucer; demophon;  ovid; theseus  Picus   (woodpecker)   In   Roman   mythology,  son of Saturn; father of Faunus and husband of  Canens. Picus also loved Pomona. When the  enchantress Circe fell in love with Picus, he  rejected her advances, so she turned him into  a   purple   woodpecker.   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 14) and Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 7) tell of  the transformation.  See   also:   aeneid, the;   canens; faunus;  ovid; saturn  Pied Piper of Hamelin   In medieval Ger -  man legend, a magician who rid Hamelin of  a rat plague in 1284. The Pied Piper appeared  dressed in multicolored clothes and offered  to rid the city of the rats for a fee. The town  fathers agreed, and the Pied Piper began play -  ing his pipe. Rats came swarming out of their  holes and began to follow the magician to the  Weser River, where they were drowned. When  he tried to collect his fee, the town fathers Phoenix  Pied Piper of Hamelin   785

=== 페이지 803 ===
refused to pay it, so the Pied Piper began to  play his pipe again. This time children came  out and followed him to Mount Poppen, where  they vanished.  There have been many attempts to relate  this loss of children to a historic event, includ -  ing the Children’s Crusade, but the most likely  source seems to be that of Bishop Bruno of  Olmütz sending emissaries to Lower Saxony in  the 13th century to recruit families to colonize  his Bohemian diocese. The motif of driving  out creatures is repeated in Saint Patrick’s driv -  ing the snakes out of Ireland. The legend was  used by Robert Browning in   The Pied Piper of  Hamelin.  See also:   patrick, st.  Pien ch’eng   In Chinese mythology, ruler of  the sixth hell of Ti Yü, the underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Pien Ch’iao   (sixth century   b.c.e. )   In Chi-  nese legend, a deified innkeeper honored as a  god of medicine. Pien Ch’iao was the first man  to dissect the human body. He had a transpar -  ent abdomen and could not only follow the  course of his blood but also watch the action of  drugs. He is usually portrayed as a handsome  man in fine clothes, whereas his spirit teacher,  Ch’ang Sangchün, is shown nude, ugly, and  unkempt. In Japanese legend Pien Ch’iao is  called Henjaku.  Pietas   (devotion)   In   Roman   mythology,  goddess of piety, respect, and duty toward the  gods, parents, and country. A temple in her  honor was erected in Rome on the reputed spot  where a woman had fed with her own milk her  aged father, who had been imprisoned by the  Roman senate and deprived of food. In Roman  art Pietas was portrayed as a woman, often with  a stork, a symbol of piety. Aeneas, the great -  est Roman hero, was often called   pius Aeneas,  “loyal Aeneas,” referring to his high religious,  social, and patriotic ideals.  See also:   aeneas; stork  Pikoi   In   Polynesian   mythology,   Hawaiian  hero called the rat shooter. Once he strung 40  rats by their whiskers with one arrow.  Pilate, Pontius   (first century)   In the Bible,  N.T., Roman procurator in Judea, about 26–  36, who plays a prominent part in the Passion  of Christ. Although Pilate was convinced of  Jesus’   innocence,   according   to   the   Gospel  accounts, he still allowed Jesus to be crucified.  He “absolved” himself from the act by wash -  ing his hands. In Christian art Pontius Pilate is  portrayed publicly washing his hands, saying,  “I am innocent of the blood of this just person”  (Matt. 27:24). Pilate was finally brought to  Rome for slaughtering Samaritans and either  was executed or killed himself. Ironically, in  some calendars of the Eastern Church he is  placed among the saints, and his feast day is  25 June, alluding to a Christian legend that he  became converted to Christ by his wife, Claudia  Procla, who had asked him not to condemn  Jesus. The Gospels try to downplay Pilate’s  responsibility because they did not want the  Romans blamed for Jesus’ death; instead, they  place the blame on the Jews.  Pilwiz   (Bilwis)   In   Germanic   folklore,   a  spirit with a sickle on his big toe. He is a  demonic figure who goes into grain fields at  night, cuts the stalks, and delivers them to a  magician neighbor. He is generally of an evil  temper, but offerings to him help to appease  his spirit.  pine   A   cone-bearing   evergreen   tree;   in  Near   Eastern   mythology,   associated   with  the worship of the Great Mother goddess  Cybele and her lover-consort Attis. On 22  March a pine tree was felled and brought  into the goddess’s sanctuary. Its trunk was  swathed like a corpse in woolen blankets and  decorated with wreaths of violets, said to have  sprung from the blood of Attis when he was  castrated by a wild boar and transformed into  a pine tree. On 24 March, the Day of Blood,  786   Pien ch’eng

=== 페이지 804 ===
the high priest drew blood from his arms  and presented it to the goddess. His offering  was followed by those of other men, some of  whom castrated themselves on the altar. They  then   would   run   through   the   city   carrying  their genitals. When a man threw his genitals  into a particular house, that house was con -  sidered honored and had to furnish him with  female attire and ornaments, which he would  wear the rest of his life. In Greek mythology,  the pine was associated with Dionysus, and  in Greek art a wand tipped with a pine cone  often is carried by the god or his worshippers.  For the Romans the pine cone was a symbol  of virginity. In Japan the pine is a symbol of  longevity, constancy, and marital faithfulness  under the spirits of Jo and Uba. In modern-  day Germany and Austria, a pine is placed  on a new building when the highest point is  reached. This moment is the   Richtfest   (con -  struction feast), and the owner must supply  the workers with food and drink. This guar -  antees that the new inhabitants will also have  enough to eat and drink.  See also:   attis; dionysus; jo and uba  P’ing-Teng   In Chinese mythology, ruler of  the eighth hell of Ti Yü, the underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Piper, The   Aesopic fable found in various  European collections.  There was a piper who was walking by the  seaside when he saw some fish. He began to  pipe, thinking they would come out of the  water onto the land. After some time he real -  ized that his music did not charm them, so he  got a net and cast it into the sea. A great draft  of fishes was drawn up. They began to leap  and dance. The piper said, “Cease your danc -  ing now, as you did not dance when I piped  for you.”  Moral:   Pay attention and come when you are  called.  The fable was told by Cyrus of Sardis to  a group of Ionian and Aeolian Greeks who  had come to plead with the conqueror. Cyrus  had earlier urged them to revolt against Croe -  sus—whom he had since defeated—but they  had refused. “It was in anger, therefore, that he  made them this reply,” according to Herodo -  tus in his   History of the Persian Wars   (book 1).  There is an English proverb, “Fish are not to  be caught with a bird call,” which may stem  from this fable.  See also:   aesopic fables  Pisachas   (flesh eaters)   In Hindu mythology,  demons created by the god Brahma from stray  drops of water that fell from the water used to  create gods and men. They are vile, the most  malignant order of malevolent beings.  See also:   brahma  Pleiades   (sailing   ones,   flock   of   doves)   In  Greek   mythology,   seven   daughters   of   Atlas  and Pleione: Alcyone (winter storm), Celaeno  (darkness),   Electra,   Maia   (fertility),   Merope  (mortality), Sterope (Asterope), and Taygeta  (nymph   of   the   mountain   in   Lacedaemon).  They were born in Arcadia on Mount Cyllene.  They were pursued by the giant Orion and  transformed   into   the   heavenly   constellation  Pleiades, or they wept at the suffering of the  father, Atlas, and were transformed into stars.  One of the Pleiades is invisible. Some accounts  say it is Merope, who married a mortal and  hides out of shame; other accounts say it is  Electra, who hides from grief for the destruc -  tion of Troy. Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13)  tells the myth. Lord Byron’s   Beppo   (14) refers  to “the lost Pleiad.” The term the   Pleiad   is  frequently given to groups of seven illustri -  ous persons, such as the 16th-century French  Pleiad who wrote poetry. Their leader was  Ronsard.  See also:   alcyone; arcadia; atlas; celaeno;  electra; maia; orion; ovid; troy  Pluto   (wealth giver)   In Greek and Roman  mythology, Hades, god of the dead and the  underworld; also called Ades, Aides, Aidoneus,  Pluto   787

=== 페이지 805 ===
Pluton, Dis; married to Persephone. No temples  or offerings were made to Pluto. Shakespeare’s  Henry IV, Part II   (2.4.109) refers to “Pluto’s  damned lake by this hand, to the infernal deep,  / With Erebus and tortures vile also,” describ -  ing the realm of the underworld.  See also:   hades; persephone  Plutus   (wealth)   In Greek mythology, god of  wealth, son of Demeter and the Titan Iasion.  Plutus was originally connected with agricul -  tural prosperity but later became the god of  riches. He was believed to be blind because  wealth was given indiscriminately to good and  bad alike. In Thebes and Athens the god was  portrayed as a child on the arm of Tyche and  of Eirene, goddess of peace. Hesiod’s   Theogony  cites   the   god,   as   do   Aristophanes’   comedy  Plutus,   in which his sight is restored so that he  can give wealth to the deserving, and Dante’s  Divine   Comedy   (Hell),   where   he   appears   as  Pluto, the Italian form of Plutus (not to be con -  fused with Pluto, the god of the underworld).  See also:   demeter; eirene; hesiod; titans  Pocahontas   (playful one)   (c. 1595–1617)   In  American history and folklore, popular name  of   Matoaka,   daughter   of   the   Indian   chief  Powhatan. In legend as recorded in Captain  John Smith’s   Generall Historie,   she saved the life  of John Smith when Powhatan was about “to  beate out his brains.” Pocahontas intervened,  placing Smith’s “head in her armes, and laid  her owne upon his to save him from death”  (book III, chapter 2). Pocahontas later became  a Christian, married John Rolfe in 1614, went  to England, and died there.  Pocahontas is mentioned in Ben Jonson’s  Staple of News   and Thomas Fuller’s   Worthies of  England,   as well as various novels, poems, and  plays, among them John Davis’s   The Indian Prin -  cess, or La Belle Sauvage,   John Esten Cooke’s   My  The Rape of Proserpine by Pluto   (Illustration from   Bulfinch ’ s Mythology )  788   Plutus

=== 페이지 806 ===
Introduction   789  Plutus , illustration for Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (William Blake)

=== 페이지 807 ===
Lady Pokahontas,   Vachel Lindsay’s poem “Poca -  hontas, Our Mother,” and Hart Crane’s poem  “The Bridge.” Though most historians have  rejected Smith’s account, Bradford Smith ( Cap -  tain John Smith, His Life and Legend ) believes  there may be some truth in the tale. The Dis -  ney movie   Pocahontas   (1995) is accurate in some  respects. It captures the spirit of the woman  Pocahontas and her people, and the spirit of  the early days of Jamestown. Pocahontas’s life  ended on a high note, with a triumphal tour of  England as a visiting princess. This part of her  life is covered in Disney’s   Pocahontas II: Journey  to a New World   (1998). When she started home,  disease took her life, and she was buried in  the church at Gravesend, England (17 March  1617) at age 21 or 22.  Poetic Edda   Collection of poems on Norse  mythological and legendary themes, believed to  date from the eighth or ninth century   c.e.,   some -  times called the   Elder Edda   or   Saemund’s Edda.  The   title   Saemund’s   Edda   was   given   by  Icelandic scholars in the 17th century in the  erroneous belief that the poems were written or  collected by Saemund the Learned. Actually, the  poems were first written down from oral tradi -  tion in the 12th or 13th century. The oldest part  of the   Poetic Edda   deals with myths of the Norse  gods in the form of dialogues between Odin  and another—either a giant, human being, or  another deity. The most important poem of  the group is the   Voluspa   (the Wise Woman’s  Prophecy), which deals with a visit by Odin to  the oracle and gives an account of the origins  of the world, its present state, Ragnarok (the  end of the world), and the new world that will  emerge after Ragnarok. The other poems are  Hovamol   (the Lay of the High One),   Vafthruth -  nismol   (the Lay of Vafthruthnir, “the Mighty in  Riddles”),   Grimnismol   (the Lay of Grimmer),  Skirnismol   (the Lay of Skirnir),   Harbarthsljoth  (the Lay of Harbarth, “Gray-Beard,” that is,  Odin),   Hymiskvitha   (the Lay of Hymir),   Loka -  senna   (Loki’s mocking),   Thrymskvitha   (the Lay  of Thrym),   Alvissmol   (the Lay of Alvis, “All-  Knowing”),   Baldrs Draumar   (Baldur’s Dream),  Rigsthula   (the Lay of Rig),   Hyndluljoth   (the Lay  of Hyndla, “She- Dog”), and   Svipdagsmol   (the  Lay of Svipdog, “Swift-Day”).  Aside from poems dealing with Norse gods,  other poems or lays deal with heroes of the  Northlands, such as   Helgakvioa Hjorvarossonar  (the Lay of Helgi the Son of Hjorvaror), which  tells of the wooing of Svava by King Helgi.  Some of the poems of the   Poetic Edda   were trans -  lated into English by William Morris in the 19th  century. Earlier, the English poet Thomas Gray  used the   Vegtamskvioa   (the Lay of the Wayfarer),  which is a supplement to the   Voluspa,   in writing  his poem “The Descent of Odin, an Ode.”  See also:   prose edda;   ragnarok  poinsettia   The legend of the poinsettia con -  cerns Pepita, a poor Mexican girl who had no  Frontispiece for an edition of the  Poetic Edda   (W. G. Collingwood)  790   Poetic Edda

=== 페이지 808 ===
gift to present the Christ Child at Christmas  Eve services. Walking to the chapel with her  cousin Pedro, Pepita’s heart was filled with  sadness. “I am sure, Pepita, that even the most  humble gift, if given in love, will be acceptable  in his eyes,” said Pedro. Pepita then knelt by  the roadside and gathered a handful of weeds,  making a small bouquet of them. She became  even sadder looking at the bunch of weeds. She  fought back tears as she entered the small vil -  lage chapel. When she approached the altar, she  remembered Pedro’s words. Her spirit lifted as  she placed the bouquet at the foot of the nativ -  ity scene. Suddenly the bunch of weeds burst  into bright red flowers, and everyone who saw  them was sure it was a miracle. Ever since, those  bright red flowers have been known as   Flores de  Noche Buena,   flowers of the holy night, and they  bloom every year during Christmas.  Poinsettias are not poisonous. The rumor  that they are has continued to circulate because  of one unfounded story in 1919. An army offi -  cer’s two-year-old child allegedly died after eat -  ing a poinsettia leaf. The story was never proven  and was most likely hearsay, but it has taken on  a life of it’s own. According to the American  Medical Association’s   Handbook of Poisonous and  Injurious Plants,   other than occasional cases of  vomiting, ingestion of the poinsettia plant has  been found to produce no ill effect.  Polednice   (the   noonday   witch)   In   Slavic  folklore, a noonday witch. She appears in Karel  Jaromir Erben’s literary folk ballad   Kytice   (The  Garland). It tells of a mother who threatens  her unruly child with a visit from Polednice if  the child does not behave. At noonday a “little  shriveled spectral woman leaning on a crooked  stick” arrives and kills the child. This gruesome  ballad was used by Dvorák in his symphonic  poem   Polednice.   The Czech title is sometimes  translated   The Midday Witch.  polevik   (polevoy,   polevoi)   (field   spirit)   In  Slavic folklore, spirit of the field, whose nature  is variable. Sometimes he is mischievous, caus -  ing people to lose their way, or even worse, he  sometimes strangles them, particularly if they  are drunk. If a worker fell asleep in a field at  noontime or before sunset, the   polevik   would  ride over him with his horse or send some dis -  ease. To earn the   polevik’s   good will, two eggs  must be placed in a ditch with an elderly cock  that can no longer crow. The performer of this  rite must complete it before being seen by any -  one, or it will have no power. When the   polevik  appears, he is often dressed in full white. He  often has a black body, and each eye is a differ -  ent color. In northern Russia the   poludnitsa,   a  female field spirit, will sometimes lure children  away. She is a tall creature and wears white.  See also:   cock  polong   In   Malayan   mythology,   a   demon  about as big as the first joint of a little finger. It  will fly through the air wherever it is told to go,  but it is always preceded by its pet or plaything,  the   pelesit,   which is a species of house cricket.  To create a   polong,   the blood of a murdered  man is placed in a bottle with a wide bottom  and a long, narrow neck. Prayers are recited  over the bottle for 7 or 14 days (depending on  which account of the ritual is followed) until  a sound like the chirping of young birds is  heard from the bottle. The creator then cuts  one finger and inserts it into the bottle so that  the   polong   can suck the blood. If the creator is  Polevik   (I. Bilibin)  polong   791

=== 페이지 809 ===
a man, he is called its father, if a woman, its  mother. Every day the parent feeds the   polong  with his or her blood to keep the demon under  its control so that the   polong   will afflict whom -  ever it is directed to. Sometimes the   polong   is  rented out for a fee by its creator.  A person attacked by a   polong   cries out and  loses consciousness, tears off clothing, bites  and strikes, and is blind and deaf to everything.  To effect a cure, formulas are chanted by a  medicine man over the head of the afflicted,  his or her thumb is pinched, and medicines are  applied. When the remedy is successful, the  sick person cries out: “Let me go, I want to go  home.” The medicine man then replies, “I will  not let you go if you do not make known who  it is that has sent you here, and why you have  come, and who are your father and mother.”  Sometimes the   polong   will not answer or  confess, but at other times it will give all of the  particulars, though it is also capable of lying  and accusing the wrong persons of the evil  deed. If it tells the truth, the sick person will  recover; if not, the victim shrieks and yells in  anger and dies in a day or two. After the death,  blood pours forth bubbling from the mouth,  and the whole body is blue with bruises.  Polycrates   (sixth century   b.c.e. )   In Greek  history and legend, tyrant of Samos; son of  Aeacus; known for his wealth and as a patron  of the arts. According to a legend recorded in  Herodotus’s   History   (book 3), Polycrates was  told he could avoid an evil fate if he would  throw away his most precious possession. He  therefore cast his favorite ring into the sea,  only to have it returned to him in the belly of a  fish. The ring was said to have been kept in the  temple of Concord in Rome. Polycrates was  crucified by Oroetes, a Persian governor who  was envious of his good fortune.  Polydamna   (much   controlling)   In   Greek  mythology, wife of Thonis, king of Egypt. She  entertained Helen of Troy, giving her a magic  drug to help banish melancholy and care. The  myth is a late one that says Helen never went  to   Troy,   only   her   shadow;   the   true   Helen  was in Egypt. This version forms the basis  for   Richard   Strauss’s   opera   Die   Aegyptische  Helena   (1928) with a libretto by Hugo von  Hofmannsthal.  See also:   helen of troy  Polyphemus   (famous or talkative)   In Greek  mythology, the one-eyed Cyclops from Sicily  in the   Odyssey   (book 9), blinded by Odysseus;  son   of   Poseidon   and   Thoosa.   Polyphemus  had earlier killed Acis, whom Galatea loved.  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 3), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 13), Euripides’   The   Cyclops,   where he  appears   as   a   comic   character,   and   Turner’s  painting   Ulysses   Deriding   Polyphemus   all deal  with Polyphemus. Handel’s   Acis   and   Galatea  also features the Cyclops.  See also:   aeneid, the; odysseus;   odyssey,  the;   poseidon  Polyxena   (many strangers)   In Greek myth-  ology, a daughter of King Priam of Troy and  Hecuba; sister of Aesaus, Cassandra, Creusa,  Deiphobus, Hector, Helenus, Paris, and Troilus;  she was loved by Achilles. Polyxena does not  appear in Homer, but later Greek mythology  says she was sacrificed to the ghost of Achilles  by his son Neoptolemus as the Greeks were  leaving Troy. A variant account says she killed  herself. Euripides’ tragedy   Hecabe   deals with  her tale, as does W. S. Landor’s   The   Espousal   of  Polyxena.  See   also:   achilles; cassandra; hector;  paris; priam  pomegranate   Semitropical   fruit-bearing  tree, often cited in both Jewish and Christian  folklore as the fruit eaten by Adam and Eve,  though the account in Genesis does not say  which fruit was eaten. In Greek mythology,  the pomegranate is associated with Persephone  and   the   underworld.   In   Mesopotamia   the  pomegranate was believed to increase sexual  potency. According to one myth, the god Attis  792   Polycrates

=== 페이지 810 ===
was conceived when his mother, Nana, a virgin,  put a pomegranate on her bosom. Variants of  the myth cite the almond. In European folk -  lore, a dream about pomegranates means love  is on the way.  See also:   adam and eve; almond; attis;  persephone  Pomona   (tree fruits)   In Roman mythology,  goddess of fruit trees. She married Vertumnus,  who,   disguised   as   an   old   woman,   success -  fully prevailed on her to break her vow of  celibacy. Her other suitors were Pan, Picus,  Priapus,   and   Silonus.   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 14) tells how Vertumnus fell in love  with Pomona.  See   also:   ovid;   pan;   picus;   priapus;  vertumnus  Pope Elhanan   In medieval Jewish legend,  a Jew who became pope. In some accounts  Elhanan   left   the   papacy   and,   according   to  one medieval legend, “became a Jew great -  ly respected in the eyes of all the people.”  Elhanan’s legend is placed by some scholars in  the 13th century. Anacletus II, who was pope  from 1130 to 1138, was of Jewish descent and  was called Judaeopontifex (the Jewish pope); he  may have inspired the legend.  Pope Joan   (Yahweh has been gracious)   In  medieval legend, a woman who disguised her -  self as a man and was elected pope as John VIII.  Joan was English by birth. She disguised her -  self as a man when she went to Athens to study.  She then went on to Rome, where, according  to Bartolomeo Plantina in his   Lives of the Popes,  “she met with few that could equal, much less  go beyond her, even in the knowledge of Holy  Scriptures; and by her learned and ingenious  readings and disputations, she acquired so great  a respect and authority that upon the death of  Leo .   .   . by common consent she was chosen  pope in his place.” As she was going to the  Lateran Church for a service, labor pains came  upon her, and she died after having been pope  for a little more than two years. The legend  inspired Emmanuel Royidis’s novel   Pope Joan,  translated into English by Lawrence Durrell. A  popular card game played without the eight of  diamonds is called the Pope Joan.  Popol Vuh   (book of the community?)   Sacred  book of the ancient Quiché Maya Indians of  Guatemala.  The   Popol Vuh   was first written down in  the Quiché language, but in Latin characters,  sometime in the middle of the 16th century  by an unknown Mayan convert to Christianity.  The now-lost manuscript was copied at the  end of the 17th century by Father Francisco  Ximénez, a parish priest of the village of Santo  Tomás Chichicastenango in the highlands of  Guatemala. The work was rediscovered by the  Austrian scholar Carl Scherzer in 1857. Pomona  Popol Vuh   793

=== 페이지 811 ===
The   Popol Vuh   is divided into four parts.  The first deals with the creation of the world.  The second and third books are concerned with  the heroes of the Indians, such as Hunahpû and  Xbalanqué. The last section gives myths of cult  origins, accounts of tribal wars, and records of  historic rulers. Tales from the   Popol Vuh   were  used by Charles Finger in his   Tales from Silver  Lands.  See also:   hunahpú and xbalanqué  Poro   In African cult (Mende of Sierra Leone),  a group of secret societies. They serve a variety  of functions, including the initiation of youths  into manhood during puberty rituals and the  perpetuation of old customs. The society is  arranged in a hierarchy controlled by the elders  of the community. Women may join but rarely  become leaders. The members meet at a secret  location that they refer to as a “sacred bush,”  located near the spot where the founder of their  group is buried. The masked spirit of the society  is the Gbeni, which may be viewed only by fel -  low members. A society similar to this one, used  for the initiation of girls, is the Sande.  Po’ Sandy   In American folklore, a runaway  slave who was transformed into a tree in order  to escape capture. The African-American nov -  elist Charles W. Chesnutt narrates the tale in  his   Po’ Sandy   (1888).  See also:   motif  Poseidon   (lord light, shining lord)   In Greek  mythology, one of the 12 Olympian gods, god of  the sea, earthquakes, and horses; son of Cronus  and Rhea; brother of Zeus, Demeter, Hades,  Hera, and Hestia; identified by the Romans  with their god Neptune. Poseidon ruled the  Mediterranean and the Black Seas; rivers not  navigated by the Greeks were ruled by Oceanus  and Pontus, the latter also a Titan god as old as  Oceanus. Poseidon and his wife, Amphitrite, a  daughter of Nereus, lived in a palace of gold at  the bottom of the sea. When the god appeared  in his golden chariot, drawn by horses with brass  hooves and golden manes, the waters grew calm,  though he could raise sudden storms or cause  shipwrecks. Black bulls were sacrificed to him.  Poseidon and Athena had a contest to determine  who would rule Athens. It was agreed that the  deity who could create the most useful gift for  humankind should rule Athens. Poseidon, strik -  ing a stone with his trident, produced the horse.  Athena, however, invented the olive tree, and  the city was awarded to her patronage because  the olive branch was a symbol of peace and the  horse a symbol of war. Poseidon also lost in his  attempt to win Argos from Hera and Corinth  from the sun god Helios.  During   the   Trojan   War   Poseidon   sided  with   the   Greeks.   Before   the   war   Poseidon  and Apollo had to build the walls of Troy as  a punishment for offending Zeus. When the  walls were completed, Laomedon, the ruler,  refused to pay the gods. In revenge Poseidon  sent a monster to kill the Trojans. To appease  the angry god, Laomedon offered his daughter  Hesione as a sacrifice, but Heracles saved the  girl. Never forgetting the wrong done him,  Poseidon aided the Greeks in the Trojan War  until Troy was burned to the ground. Like his  brother Zeus, Poseidon loved to have numer -  ous mistresses, among them Gaea, Demeter,  Aphrodite,   the   Gorgon   Medusa,   and   many  nymphs. Among his numerous offspring were  Amyous, Antaeus, Arion, Pegasus, Polyphe -  mus, and Triton.  Poseidon appears or is cited in Homer’s  Iliad   and   Odyssey ; Hesiod’s   Theogony ; Vergil’s  Aeneid ; Ovid’s   Metamorphoses ; Spenser’s   Faerie  Queene ; Shakespeare’s   Coriolanus   (3.1.256),   The  Tempest   (5.1.35), and   Cymbeline   (3.1.20); and  Pope’s   Rape of the Lock   (5.50), as well as works  by Milton, Jonson, Beaumont, Fletcher, and  W. B. Yeats, among others. Most of these cite  him under his Latin name form, Neptune.  In ancient Greek and Roman art Poseidon  is portrayed as a strong older man with thick,  curly hair and beard holding a trident (three-  pronged   fork)   and   with   a   dolphin   nearby,  often with his wife, Amphitrite, and some -  794   Poro

=== 페이지 812 ===
times with Triton, one of his many sons. His  contest with Athena for Athens is featured on  the west pediment of the Parthenon. One of  his most famous temples is on the promon -  tory of Sunium in Attica, dating from the fifth  century   b.c.e.  See also:   apollo; athena; demeter; hades;  hera; hestia; neptune; titans; zeus  potato   An edible tuber of the nightshade  family, at one time condemned by 18th-cen -  tury Scots because it was not mentioned in the  Bible and therefore was considered unholy.  It was once believed to be poisonous, and in  Elizabethan England it was believed to restore  sexual potency. In Shakespeare’s   Troilus and  Cressida   (5:2) Diomedes says to Cressida, “How  the devil luxury, with his fat rump and potato-  finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!”  In this context potato-finger means penis.  See also:   troilus and cressida  Pothos   In   Greek   mythology,   personifica -  tion   of   longing   and   desire;   companion   of  Aphrodite.  See also:   aphrodite  Potkoorok   In   Australian   mythology,   mis -  chievous spirits who play tricks on fishermen.  Potok-Mikhailo-Ivanovich   (Mikhail Potyk)  In Russian folklore, a   bogatyr,   or epic hero, with  superhuman strength, who appears in the   byli -  ni,   the epic songs, as well as in many folktales.  When Potok-Mikhailo-Ivanovich married, he  and his wife made a pact. When one died, the  other would follow into the tomb. When his  wife died, he attached a rope to the church bell  in case he changed his mind. He then went to  her grave with his horse and sat there all night.  At midnight many serpents appeared, one of  which turned into a dragon, all aflame. Potok-  Mikhailo-Ivanovich killed the monster with his  sharp saber and cut off its head. He then took  the head and anointed the body of his wife with  its blood, and she immediately was restored  to life. Mikhail rang the bell, and they were  released from the tomb. The two were allowed  by   the   priest   “to   live   as   formerly.”   When  Potok- Mikhailo-Ivanovich died, his wife “was  buried alive with him in the dank earth.”  See also:   bylina  Potoyan   In Australian mythology, a tribal  name for the evil spirit. He can be driven away  by fire because he is afraid of it.  pourquois story   (why story)   A narrative  that has both fable and myth elements and  is told to explain the nature of existence or  of certain phenomena. An example is “How  People Sang the Mountains Up.” This Apache  story tells how animals, humans, and even the  gods sang to the mountains to make them grow  up to the heavens, to the sun and the moon,  the source of earthly strength. Another Native  American   story   describes   abnormal   weather  as the result of a beaver’s despair and weeping  when his proposal of marriage was rejected.  Common to many of the stories is a fault or an  evil that must be removed, and in this way the  pourquois story is like a fable that illustrates  human defects and shortcomings, with a con -  cluding moral often found in the title itself.  This genre of stories has also often been taken  up by modern authors, such as Joel Chandler  Poseidon riding on a hippocampus  pourquois story   795

=== 페이지 813 ===
Harris in his Uncle Remus tales (1905), and to  some degree even by Rudyard Kipling in his  Just-So Stories   (1902).  See also:   aesopic fables; uncle remus  Pradyumna   In Hindu mythology, a son of  Krishna (an incarnation of the god Vishnu).  Pradyumna, when he was six days old, was sto -  len by the demon Sambara and thrown into the  ocean, where he was swallowed by a fish. When  the fish was later caught, Pradyumna was released.  He was brought up by Maya-devi (Maya-vati), a  mistress of the demon Sambara. Later, when  Pradyumna grew up, he challenged Sambara and  killed him. Pradyumna himself was killed in the  presence of his father, Krishna, during a drunken  brawl. In a variant myth Pradyumna is said to be  a form of the god of love, Kama, while in the epic  poem   The Mahabharata   Pradyumna is said to be  the son of the god Brahma.  See also:   brahma; kama; krishna;   mahab -  harata, the  Prajapati   (lord   of   creatures)   In   Hindu  mythology,   an   epithet   of   the   god   Brahma  or an epithet applied to sages who were the  progenitors of the human race. Their number  varies from seven to 21 in different accounts.  In the Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata,  for example, there are 21 Prajapatis, whereas  in the Vedas the term is also applied to Indra,  the storm god, and to the 10 mind-born sons  of Brahma. The term, therefore, is fluid in its  uses. The major Prajapatis are Angiras, Atri (an  eater), Atharvan, Bhrigu, Daksha, Kasshhyapa,  Kratu, Marichi, Narada (bringing to man?),  Pulaha,   Pulastya,   Pracetas,   Vasishtha   (most  wealthy), Viswamitra (friend of all), Viraj (rul -  ing afar), and Virana (heroic).  See also:   brahma;   mahabharata, the;   vedas  Prakriti   In Buddhist legend, a woman of low  caste who fell in love with Ananda, a disciple of  the Buddha. She followed Ananda and met the  Buddha, who converted her to his doctrine.  See also:   ananda  Prana   (breath of life)   In Hinduism, a name  for the supreme spirit. The sacred Atharva-  Veda calls for “Reverence to Prana, to whom all  this universe is subject, who has become lord of  the all, on whom the all is supported.”  Pratyeka-Buddha   (isolated enlightened one)  In Buddhism, a Buddha who obtains enlighten -  ment without a teacher and cannot proclaim  his enlightenment. Sometimes the term Silent  Buddha is used. In Pali it is called Pacceka-  Buddha. There are two other paths to salvation.  Prakriti  796   Pradyumna

=== 페이지 814 ===
Some attain Nirvana through Arhatship, and  some,   the   Supreme   Buddhas,   attain   perfect  enlightenment and teach the Dharma to others.  See also:   arhat; dharma  prayer wheel   (precious Dharma wheel)   In  Tibetan Buddhism, a wheel containing either  passages from sacred writings or a series of  mantras, such as the   Om Mani Padme Hum,   an  untranslatable formula representing the entire  Buddhist teaching, learned in childhood and  repeated constantly up to one’s death. Prayer  wheels can be small enough to be held in one’s  hand or taller than a man’s head. They are like  barrels turned by hand or water or wind, and  they can be made from any material, including  wood, ivory, copper, and silver. A prayer wheel  is a means of disseminating the spiritual power  of a mantra, which is a sound or sequence of  sounds that sacramentally effect what it signi -  fies. Thus, the mantra   Om-Ah-Hum   signifies  the entry of Buddha-nature into the manifest  work and effects the manifestation when it is  recited or otherwise disseminated. The power  of the mantra is made available whenever a  prayer wheel is rotated, but its fullest effect  is felt by those who through faith open them -  selves to its power.  See also:   mantra; om  Prester John   (John the Prester)   In medieval  legend, a Christian king and priest who ruled  over a country in Asia or Africa. In the 12th cen -  tury letters purportedly written by Prester John  circulated in Europe. He describes his country,  writing   that   “our   land   streams   with   honey,  and is overflowing with milk.” Prester John  also appears in medieval Jewish legend. Joshua  Lorki, a Jewish physician to Pope Benedict XIII,  wrote that some people “live in a place under  the yoke of a strange people .   .   . governed by  a Christian chief, Preste-Cuan [Prester John].”  Benjamin of Tudela, another Jew, traveled in  the East between 1159 and 1173 and wrote that  Prester John was a Jewish king who ruled with  great splendor over a realm inhabited by the  Jews. According to the later account of Sir John  Mandeville in his   Travels,   Prester John was a lin -  eal descendant of Ogier the Dane, who reached  the north of India with 15 of his barons. Marco  Polo, in his   Travels,   says Genghis Khan “fought  against Prester John, and, after a desperate fight,  overcame and slew him.”  See also:   ogier the dane  Preta   (ghosts)   In Hindu mythology, a ghost  or evil spirit animating a dead body and haunt -  ing cemeteries.  Preta   797  Prana

=== 페이지 815 ===
Priam   (ransomed back or chief)   In Greek  mythology, king of Troy; son of Laomedon and  Strymo (or Placid); husband of Hecuba; father  of 50 sons and 50 daughters, among whom were  Hector, Paris, Troilus, Cassandra, and Creusa.  When Heracles took the city of Troy, Priam  was one of the prisoners. His sister Hesione  freed him by ransom, and he changed his origi -  nal name, Podarces, to Priam (ransomed back).  (His name is probably derived from a word  indicating chief or first; the story of his name  change represents a back-formed folk etymol -  ogy.) Heracles later placed him on the throne  of Troy. Priam had earlier married Arisba but  divorced her to marry Hecuba. He then wished  to recover his sister Hesione, whom Heracles  had carried to Greece and married to his friend  Telamon. To carry out his plan, Priam manned  a fleet and gave his son Paris command of it. But  Paris returned with Helen, wife of Menelaus, as  a prize for choosing Aphrodite to receive the  Golden Apple in the incident of the Judgment  of Paris, and thus the seeds of the Trojan War  were sown. In Homer’s   Iliad   Priam is portrayed  as an old man. When his son Hector is killed  by Achilles, Priam goes to the Greek hero and  begs the body of his dead son. According to  post-Homeric accounts, Priam was killed at the  altar of Zeus by Neopotolemus.  Among ancient authors Priam appears in  Homer’s   Iliad,   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 2), and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (books 12, 13). In English  literature references to Priam are found in the  works of Chaucer, Spenser, Shakespeare, Mil -  ton, Dryden, Pope, Byron, Wordsworth, Ten -  nyson, Keats, William Morris, D. G. Rossetti,  Robert Bridges, and John Masefield. Priam  appears in a series of wall frescoes in Pompeii.  Berlioz’s   The Trojans   and Tippet’s   King Priam  are operas that feature the tragic king.  See also:   achilles; aphrodite; cassandra;  hector; helen of troy; hesione;   iliad, the  menelaus; paris; priam; troy  Priapus   In   Greek   and   Roman   mytholo -  gy,   god   of   gardens   and   vegetation,   associ -  ated—because of his portrayal with an erec -  tion—with good luck and lewd behavior; son  of Dionysus and Aphrodite. Priapus also was  called Lutinus and Mutinus by the Romans.  Originally a god from the Hellespont region,  his cult spread to Greece, Alexandria, and  Italy. Donkeys, symbols of lust, were sacri -  ficed to him. Horace, Tibullus, and Martial  wrote of him, and he appears in Petronius’s  novel   Satyricon,   in which the hero Encolpius’s  inability   to   have   an   erection   is   a   punish -  ment of Priapus. Priapus was portrayed with  an erection, and statues of him were placed  in   gardens.   He   is   mentioned   in   Chaucer’s  Parliament of Fowls,   Shelley’s   Witch of Atlas,  Swinburne’s   Dolores,   D. H. Lawrence’s “Hymn  to Priapus,” and T. S. Eliot’s “Mr. Apollinax.”  Poussin’s   Dance in Honor of Priapus   portrays  the god as a   Herm,   a square pillar support -  ing a bust of Hermes and having erect male  genitals. Herms often stood at the crossroads  in Greek cities as a protection. A sculpture  series was designed by Poussin for the gardens  at Versailles in which Pan, Faunus, Heracles,  Flora, Pomona, and Venus are portrayed.  See also:   aphrodite; chaucer; dionysus  Primary Chronicle   In Russian history and  legend, an 11th-century chronicle that provides  an important source for stories, particularly  those in the spirit of   dvoeverie   (double faith),  a continuation of pagan traditions after the  Iris advising Priam to obtain  Hector’s body   (John Flaxman)  798   Priam

=== 페이지 816 ===
adoption of Christianity. It is also sometimes  called the   Tale of Bygone Years.  See also:   tale of bygone years  Princess on the Pea   Literary folktale by  Hans   Christian   Andersen.   A   young   woman  stops at a castle and asks for lodging for the  night. She claims to be a princess, and the  prince who lives at the castle falls in love with  her and wants to marry her. The prince’s moth -  er, fearing she might be an impostor, devises  a test to see if she has the true sensitivity of a  princess. The old queen has the guest’s bed pre -  pared with 20 mattresses and 20 eiderdowns.  Underneath the bottom mattress she places a  pea, saying that if the girl is a true princess she  will be able to detect it. The next morning the  princess complains that she was unable to sleep  because there was something hard underneath  the mattress. She is proclaimed a true princess  and marries the prince.  The Grimmses’   Die Erbsenprobe   also has a  version of the tale, and there are variants of  it in Hungary, Greece, Romania, Arabia, and  India. The tale furnished the plot for the musi -  cal comedy   Once upon a Mattress,   starring Carol  Burnett, in which the pea under the mattress  was supplemented with pots and pans by the  prince’s partisans, who were determined to see  him marry.  See also:   andersen, hans christian; grimm  brothers  Prince Vladimir and the Fall of the Old  Gods   The Russian legend of Prince Vladimir  concerns his rejection of the old gods for the  new Christian god. The prince cruelly mur -  ders his brother Yaropolk in order to seize the  throne of Kiev. There, he builds a magnificent  palace high above the Dniepr River and soon  marries a Christian princess of Byzantium. She  prays for many years for her husband’s conver -  sion. Vladimir has statues of the ancient gods  erected on the hillside outside the palace court -  yard: a wooden statue of Pyerun with a head  of silver and a beard of gold, alongside Khors,  Dazhbog, Stribog, Simargl, and Mokosh. The  people of Kiev sacrifice even their sons and  daughters to these idols.  Prince Vladimir appoints his uncle Dobrynya  to rule the city of Novgorod. He erects statues to  the ancient gods along the banks of the Volkhov  River, and the citizens there also sacrifice to the  gods. When the soldiers wish to thank the gods  for successful military expeditions, lots are cast  to choose a suitable victim. A young man is cho -  sen, but his Christian father refuses to give him  up, saying “Your gods are merely wooden idols,  they cannot eat, drink, or partake in discourse.”  The warriors quickly destroy the man’s house  and then kill him and his son. Soon thereafter,  Prince Vladimir is converted to Christianity. He  has all the statues torn down and thrown into  a fire, all except the statue of Pyerun, which is  dragged down to the water, beaten, and thrown  into the Dniepr River. Where the statue floated  to shore is now known as Pyerun’s Shore; today  a church stands there. In a way similar to those  in Kiev, the old gods were also destroyed in  Novgorod by Dobrynya. The statue of Pyerun  floated upstream and as it passed under a bridge  was heard to say: “O citizens of Novgorod,  remember me.” Today the voice of Pyerun can  still be heard from the bridge over the Volkhov  River saying “Remember me.”  See also:   dazhbog; khors; mokosh; pyerun  Prince   Vladimir’s   Quest   The   Russian  prince Vladimir is satisfied that his land is one  of plenty, beauty, and peace, but one thing is  missing: faith. The prince calls together three  of his most trusted servants to search for a faith  of truth, beauty, and one that will move the  hearts of the people of Rus. Trustworthy Oleg,  honorable Mladan, and brave Vachtan are sent  forth as pilgrims to the far corners of the world  to find this faith. They search from east to  west, from north to south, like nomads. They  meet people of all colors and races, they meet  tillers of the earth and fishers of the sea, all of  whom claimed that theirs is the true religion.  Still Oleg, Mladan, and Vachtan do not feel  Prince Vladimir’s Quest   799

=== 페이지 817 ===
their hearts stir, and thus they continue their  quest. One day in the autumn they meet a dark  and grotesque dwarf named Nalsa. When they  tell him what they are searching for, he sends  them to Babylon to visit the awesome god -  dess Yram, but he warns them not to talk to a  maiden along the way. “She will surely lead you  to misery and misfortune.” When they came to  Babylon they meet just such a maiden, who tells  them to go east to the Queen of Cities, where  the sign of the cross is seen in the clouds. They  go into the temple in Babylon and are deeply  disappointed in the worship of Yram, since it  offers nothing more than what they have with  the gods in Rus. Then they all dream of the  maiden, who tells them to go to the nearest  village, where they will meet a captain who  will take them across the sea in his boat. When  they   arrive   in   Constantinople   they   see   the  great church with its golden domes, and in the  sky above is a cross in the clouds. They go to  the morning liturgy and experience the beauty  and splendor of the place and find there a holy  place where men glorify their master in truth  and honor. They arrive back in their homeland  and tell the prince of their long wanderings,  and that they have indeed found the faith he is  searching for. Prince Vladimir then has a burn -  ing desire to go himself to the same church and  become a Christian and to bring back this faith  to his people.  Priya-vrata   In Hindu mythology, a son of  the   god   Brahma.   Priya-vrata   was   unhappy  about the fact that only half the earth at a time  was lit by the sun. One day he “followed the  sun seven times round the earth in his own  flaming   car   of   equal   velocity,   like   another  celestial orb, resolved to turn night into day,”  according to the   Bhagavata Purana.   Before his  father, Brahma, stopped him, “the ruts which  were   formed   by   the   motion   of   his   chariot  wheels were the seven oceans. In this way the  seven continents of the earth were formed.”  In the   Vishnu Puranas   he had 10 sons and  two daughters. Three of his sons adopted a  religious life, and he divided the seven conti -  nents among the others.  See also:   brahma; puranas; vishnu  Procrustes   (stretcher-out)   In Greek myth-  ology, robber, tyrant of Attica; son of Poseidon;  also called Damastes or Polypemon. He tied  travelers to his iron bed, cutting off their legs to  make them fit if they were too long or stretch -  ing them if too short. He was killed by the hero  Theseus, who forced Procrustes to lie in his  own bed. “Procrustean” has come to symbol -  ize tyranny and enforced labor. Apollodorus’s  Bibliotheca   (Library) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 7) and   Heroides   (book 2) all deal with  Procrustes.  See also:   ovid; poseidon; theseus  Prometheus   (forethought)   In Greek myth-  ology, Titan culture hero who gave human -  kind   fire;   invented   architecture,   astronomy,  medicine, navigation, metalworking, and writ -  ing; son of the Titan Iapetos and either the  goddess Themis (later married to Zeus) or  Clymene (Asia), an Oceanide; brother of Atlas,  Epimetheus   (afterthought),   and   Menoetlus,  married to Hesione; father of Deucalion by  Hesione or Pronoea.  After the gods had defeated the Titans in the  battle to rule the universe, the gods negotiated  with man about the honor man was to pay to  the gods. Since Prometheus, though a Titan,  had sided with the gods, he was chosen to decide  how sacrificial victims were to be offered. Pro -  metheus cut up an ox and divided it into two  parts. He wrapped the choice cuts in the skin  of the ox and placed the stomach on top of it  to make it look unappetizing. The remainder  of the animal, which was made up of bones,  Prometheus covered with fat to make it look  desirable. Zeus had to make the choice of which  portion was to be set aside for the gods. Zeus  knew that Prometheus had set up a trick but still  chose the heap of bones and fat. Then, as a pun -  ishment to mankind, Zeus deprived them of the  gift of fire, leaving them in darkness and cold.  800   Priya-vrata

=== 페이지 818 ===
That did not stop Prometheus, who, accord -  ing to Hesiod’s   Theogony,   “cheated him, and  stole the far seen splendor of untiring fire in a  hollow fennelstalk” and gave it to man. Zeus,  angered that man now had fire, called on the  smith   god   Hephaestus   to   make   a   beautiful  woman of clay, whom Zeus called Pandora.  Until that time man had lived alone. Zeus  called on the goddess Athena, who, accord -  ing to Hesiod, “girded and arrayed Pandora  in silver-white raiment (and) placed around  her head lovely garlands freshbudding with  meadow-flowers.” Hermes, the messenger of  the gods, then carried to Pandora a jar (or box)  as her dowry. In the jar was every evil that was  to come into the world. Pandora was brought  before Epimetheus. Though Prometheus had  warned his brother not to accept any gifts from  Zeus, Epimetheus was so moved by Pandora’s  beauty that he married her. Pandora removed  the lid from the jar, and out flew all the evils,  troubles, and diseases that were unknown to  man   until   that   time.   Only   Hope   remained  in the jar when Pandora closed it again. The  misogynist Hesiod wrote: “Just so to mortal  men high-thundering Zeus gave woman as an  evil.” But Zeus was not satisfied with punishing  man; he now turned on Prometheus and had  him bound in adamantine chains to a pillar,  with an eagle (or vulture) who ate Prometheus’s  liver   Epimetheus accepts Pandora from Mercury  each day. The liver was restored at night only  to be eaten again the next day.  In a variant myth recorded in Ovid’s   Meta -  morphoses   (book 1), Prometheus is made the  actual creator of humankind: “.   .   . Prometheus  tempere’d into paste, / And, mix’t with living  streams, the godlike image cast” (John Dryden  translation). Goethe used this image in his poem  Prometheus,   which was set to music by Franz  Schubert and Hugo Wolf. The combination of  defiance of omnipresent authority and godly  powers of creation have made Prometheus one  of the most popular subjects in Western art,  music, and literature. Among the most impor -  tant works is Aeschylus’s   Prometheus Bound,   part  of a trilogy. The other two plays in the tril -  ogy,   Prometheus the Firebringer   and   Prometheus  Released,   have been lost. Other works include  Shelley’s   Prometheus Unbound ; Beethoven’s   Die  Geschöpfe   des   Prometheus   (The   Creatures   of  Prometheus) (1801); Alexander Scriabin’s   Pro -  metheus, Poem of Fire ; Franz Liszt’s symphonic  poem   Prometheus   (1850), as well as his setting  of texts of the German Romantic poet Herder,  who wrote a play   Prometheus ; and André Gide’s  Le Prométhée mal Enchaîné,   in which the eagle  or vulture is kept as a pet by Prometheus.  Others who have treated the theme are Lord  Byron, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Robert  Bridges,   James   Russell   Lowell,   and   Robert  Graves. Painters using Prometheus as a subject  include Piero di Cosimo, Rubens, Jordaens,  and Jacob Epstein. The best-known modern  sculpture is in Rockefeller Center in New York  City and portrays Prometheus giving the gift of  fire to humankind.  See also:   atlas; deucalion; hesione; ovid;  themis; titans; zeus  Propp, Vladimir   (1895–1970)   Russian folk-  lorist best known as the author of a 1928 book  called   Morfologija skazki   (Morphology of the  Folktale), in which he postulated that, “fairy  tales possess a quite particular structure which  is immediately felt and which determines their Epimetheus accepts Pandora from Mercury  Propp, Vladimir   801

=== 페이지 819 ===
category, even though we may not be aware of  it.” For his analysis Propp chose 100 Russian  fairy tales recorded by A. N. Afanasiev. In his  study of these tales, Propp noted the recur -  rence of 31 “functions,” a term he used to  describe a structural component, “an act of a  character, defined from the point of view of its  significance for the course of the action.” He  was thus able to reduce these folktales to two  necessary functions: they must have a villain  (lack), and the villain must be defeated (lack  liquidated). No other functions are absolutely  necessary, although many of them are to be  found in the tales. Other functions include  absentation (one of the members of a family is  absent from home), interdiction (an interdic -  tion is addressed by the hero/heroine), viola -  tion (the interdiction is violated), and so forth.  Propp was also able to verify that no matter  how   many   functions   appeared   in   an   indi -  vidual tale, they always appeared in the same  sequence. This study laid the groundwork for  formal or structural studies of folktales. Alan  Dundes used the same methodology for ana -  lyzing North American Indian tales.  Prose Edda   Handbook of Norse mythology  for poets, written by Snorri Sturluson (1179–  1241   c.e. ). The work is sometimes called the  Younger Edda   to distinguish it from the   Poetic  Edda,   or   Elder Edda.  The   Prose Edda   was designed as a handbook  for poets who wished to compose in the style  of the scalds of the Viking ages. It consists of  three parts. The first part, “Gylfaginning” (the  deluding of Gylfi), tells the myths of the Norse  gods. It is often our major source for the tales.  The second part, “Skaldskaparmal” (poetic dic -  tion), consists mainly of a catalog of kennings  (figurative expressions of various kinds), whose  use in ancient Viking poetry is illustrated by  numerous examples from old poems. It also  contains   some   mythological   and   legendary  tales. The third part, “Hattatal” (account of  meters), is a poem Snorri composed about King  Haakon and Earl (later Duke) Skuli Baroarson,  between 1221 and 1223. This is made up of  some 100 stanzas and is accompanied by a  prose commentary on the variations of meter  and style exemplified by each verse.  The major interest of the   Prose Edda   today  is the first part, which deals with tales of the  deities of Norse mythology. The   Prose Edda  had a major influence on Matthew Arnold’s  narrative poem   Balder Dead.  See also:   kenning;   poetic edda ;   skald  Proteus   (first man)   In Greek mythology,  sea god; the old man of the sea; son of Oceanus  and Tethys. He had the gift of prophecy and  the ability to change his shape until caught  and held firmly down. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book  4) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 8) deal with  Proteus. In Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (book 1)  the great deceiver Archimago can take “As  many   formes   and   shapes   in   seeming   wise/  As   ever   Proteus   to   himselfe   could   make.”  Milton’s   Comus   calls Proteus “the Carpathian  wizard,” referring to Vergil’s comment in the  Fourth Georgic   that the sea god lived most  of the time in the Carpathian Sea between  Crete and Rhodes. Other poets who have used  Proteus are Pope in   The Dunciad,   Archibald  MacLeish in   Men of My Century Loved Mozart,  Rolfe Humphries in   Proteus, or the Shapes of  Conscience,   and Wordsworth in “The World Is  Too Much with Us.” From his name come the  English words   protean   (of changeable shape)  and   protein.  See also:   odyssey, the ; ovid  Pryderi   (Phyderi)   (anxiety)   In   Celtic   mythol -  ogy, hero who was the son of Pwyll, the god of  Arawn, the underworld, and Rhiannon, the  “great queen.” He appears in the   Mabinogion.  As a child Pryderi was stolen by Teyrnon Twry  Bliant, a ruler of part of Wales lying between  the Wye and the Usk. He was given the name  Gwri (he of the golden hair), but when he was  returned to his parents he was named Pryderi.  Later in life Pryderi exchanged some valuable  swine for illusory horses and hounds offered  802   Prose Edda

=== 페이지 820 ===
by Gwydion, the British king and magician. A  fight ensued, and Pryderi was killed. His story  may have contributed to the conception of  Perceval in the Arthurian legends.  See also:   arthur, king; gwydion; perceval; mabinogion  Psyche   (soul)   In Greek and Roman mythol -  ogy, a girl loved by Eros (Cupid), who was  god of love; mother of Voluptas, who was  goddess of pleasure. Psyche was a beautiful  girl, so admired by many young men that they  neglected the worship of Aphrodite, goddess  of love. Angry, Aphrodite sent her son Eros to  cause Psyche to fall in love with an ugly mon -  ster, but instead Eros fell in love with Psyche.  He had her sent to a secret palace and made  love to her each night under cover of darkness,  telling her she must not look upon him in the  light. Curious about her lover, Psyche, carry -  ing a lamp, came into the chamber when Eros  was asleep and dropped hot oil on him, causing  him to flee. Psyche went in search of him, but  Aphrodite thwarted her with a series of mis -  haps. In the end the two lovers were reunited  and married. Apuleius’s novel   The Golden Ass ;  William Morris’s “Cupid and Psyche,” part  of   The Earthly Paradise ; and Keats’s “Ode to  Psyche” all deal with the subject. Numerous  paintings and sculptures have portrayed Psyche  and Eros, including a Hellenistic marble group  called   Invention of the Kiss,   Raphael’s frescoes  for the Loggia di Psyche in the Farnese Palace  in Rome, sculptures by Canova and Rodin,  and a painting by Edward Burne-Jones called  Psyche in Her Chamber.   César Franck wrote a  symphonic poem called   Psyche.  See also:   aphrodite; eros  Ptah   In   Egyptian   mythology,   a   creator  deity   who   made   the   world   with   his   heart  and his tongue: the chief god of Memphis;  the craft god, protector of artisans; his wife  was Sakhmet; his son, Nefertem. His scepter  included the   djed   symbol of stability, the   was  symbol of dominion, and the   ankh   symbol of  life. He bestowed these qualities on Egyptian  kings, who were often crowned in his temple  at Memphis. Ptah was identified by the Greeks  with their god Hephaestus and by the Romans  with their god Vulcan. Ptah filled many roles  in Egyptian belief. He was the master crafts -  man who brought forth everything, according  to one myth. He fashioned the gods, made the  cities, founded the   nomes   (provinces), installed  the gods in their shrines, established offerings  for them, and made likenesses of them to their  satisfaction. In Egyptian art Ptah was portrayed  as a bearded man with a tightfitting cap and  a tight-fitting garment from which his hands  extended. In Verdi’s   Aïda   the priests call upon  Ptah in the last scene of the opera.  See   also:   ankh;   hephaestus;   sakhmet;  vulcan  P’u Hsien   In Chinese Buddhism, a Bodhi-  sattva   who   becomes   patron   god   of   Mount  Omei in Szechuan, portrayed with a greenish  face, wearing a yellow robe with a red col -  lar, and riding on an elephant. At one time  Ptah  P’u Hsien   803

=== 페이지 821 ===
the elephant was a man who battled and was  defeated by P’u Hsien. P’u Hsien is derived  from the Sanskrit name A Samantabhadra, the  Bodhisattva of the protection of worldly activ -  ity or of religious practice.  See also:   bodhisattva  Puloman   In   Hindu   mythology,   a   demon  killed by Indra, the storm god, when he cursed  Indra for raping his daughter Sachi.  See also:   indra  Pundjel   In   Australian   mythology,   a   cre -  ator god who first created man. He made  the   first   couple,   two   men,   from   clay   on  pieces of bark. The black creature was called  Kookinberrook, the lighter-colored creature,  Berrokborn. Pundjel breathed on them and  danced them to life. Then Pallian, the broth -  er of Pundjel, discovered two female forms  gradually emerging head first from muddy  waters. One was Kunewarra; the other was  Kuurook.   They   became   the   wives   of   the  first two men. The men were given spears;  the women, digging sticks. In time children  were born, and the earth was inhabited, but  Pundjel and Pallian found the children to be  evil and cut them into pieces. A great wind  then came and scattered the pieces, and they  were turned into whole people.  See also:   abuk and garang; adam and eve;  ask and embla; berrokborn; khadau and  mamaldi; kookinberrook; pallian  Puntan   In Micronesian mythology, preex -  istent creator god. When Puntan was about  to die, he ordered his sister to create from his  body a place for humans to live. His breast and  back became the earth and sky; his eyes, the sun  and moon; and his eyebrows, the rainbow.  See also:   ymir  Purah   (Puta, Poteh) (fire?)   In Jewish folk -  lore, angel associated with the close of the  Sabbath.   Purah   appears   in   Isaac   Bashevis  Singer’s short story “Jachid and Jechidah.”  Puranas   (ancient)   Popular Hindu texts, later  than the epics, in which the myths of the gods  are given. There are 18 commonly accepted  Puranas of varying length and content. Usually  a Purana is devoted to the praise of one god.  The Puranas reflect popular folk beliefs and  the various cults that arose in India over the  centuries. They are as follows:  Vishnu Purana,   in which Vishnu is praised  as the creator, sustainer, and controller of the  world.  Narada Purana   (Naradiya), in which the  sage Narada describes the duties of man in  society.  Bhagavata Purana   or   Srimad Bhagavatam,  which narrates the life of Krishna (an incarna -  tion of the god Vishnu).  Garuda Purana,   named after the fantastic  bird Garuda, which carries Vishnu; it deals  with death rites.  Kurma  804   Puloman

=== 페이지 822 ===
Padma Purana,   which describes the creation  of the world when it was a golden   padma   (lotus)  and describes Patala, the lowest part of the  underworld.  Varaha Purana,   a revelation of Vishnu as the  boar incarnation, Varaha.  Matsya Purana,   a revelation of Vishnu as the  Matysa (fish) incarnation.  Kurma Purana,   a revelation of Vishnu as the  Kurma (tortoise) incarnation.  Lingam Purana,   which explains the worship  of the   lingam   (phallus) of the god Shiva.  Vayu Purana,   devoted to the god Shiva.  Skanda Purana,   devoted to Skanda, god of  war and a son of Shiva.  Agni   Purana,   a   mixture   of   various   mat -  ters told by the fire god, Agni, to the sage  Vasishtha.  Brahma Purana,   devoted to the sun god  Surya.  Brahamanda Purana,   devoted to the   anda  (egg) of the god Brahma.  Brahma-Vaivasvata Purana,   devoted to the  worship of Krishna and his mistress Radha.  Markandeya Purana,   which tells how birds  recite the sacred Vedas as well as the myth of  Shakti, as mother goddess, who saved the earth  from demons.  Bhavishya Purana,   a handbook of rites.  Vamana Purana,   a revelation of Vishnu as  the dwarf incarnation, Vamana.  See also:   agni; brahma; garuda; lingam;  shiva; skanda; vayu; vishnu  Purto   A tale from Armenia. A young hunter  named Purto looses his way and ends up in  the cave of Shah-Mar, the king of snakes. This  creature has the head of a man but the body of  a snake. Purto lights a fire in the cave and does  not notice that the snake reaches out and places  a mark on his back. Over the fire Purto roasts  some of his catch and offers it to Shah-Mar and  his attendants. After eating, the snake king asks  Purto for water, which he supplies in a small  basin with water from a nearby spring. Then  Purto digs a channel from the spring to the  cave so that the snake king and his attendants  will have plenty of water. Shah-Mar thanks him  and gives Purto a small stone of great value and  then adopts the young hunter as his son. Purto  goes on his way and when he sells the stone, the  proceeds suffice to settle all his debts, buy a flock  of 40 sheep, and build a large mansion. Purto  returns to the cave of Shah-Mar to celebrate and  is once again given a small stone of great value.  Elsewhere, Kayen, the ruler of Kilikia in Adana  in Turkey, is suffering from terrible ulcers and is  slowly dying. The king calls his doctor and asks  for a cure. The doctor knows that Purto might  be able to cure the king by magic means that  come from his association with Shah-Mar. He  is sent for, and it is also requested that the snake  king accompany him, but Purto refuses to come.  The doctor has Purto tortured by slicing open  his ears and rubbing them with salt and pepper.  Still he Purto will not agree, but the doctor  attacks the hunter with pincers and tears off  large chunks of his flesh until he finally submits.  Purto makes his way to the cave of the snake  king, who knows of the torment and says that he  will accompany Purto to Kilikia. Along the way,  they come to Mount Nauriz, where Shah-Mar  plucks a flower and tells Purto to eat it. Next he  picks many different flowers and makes a brew  of them that would allow Purto to know the  healing properties of all flowers. Purto drinks  from the brew and soon falls asleep. Now Shah-  Mar instructs Purto to make him drunk on red  wine that is exactly seven years old; then Purto is  to cut off his head, bury the body, and make two  potions, one from the right side of his head and  one from the left side. The first potion will heal,  but the second one is poisonous. Purto does as  he is told and sets out for the palace of Kayen.  The doctor is suspicious of these two potions  and wants to test them himself. Purto gives him  the poisonous one, and the doctor soon lies on  the floor dead. When he explains this to Kayen,  he understands and drinks the second potion.  He is immediately cured. From that day on  Purto is known as Loqman the Wise, the Father  of Medicine.  Purto   805

=== 페이지 823 ===
The   other   snakes   learn   of   Shah-Mar’s  death and call all of the snakes in the world  to come together and attack Adana. The king  hears of this and calls for Loqman the Wise,  who makes a potion from the liver of Shah-  Mar and sets out to visit the snakes in the cave.  He wears the prayer beads of Shah-Mar and  carries the potion made from the liver. When  the snakes see Loqman the Wise and receive  the potion, they accept him as their king and  make peace with him. Loqman then takes a  deaf and dumb youth as his assistant, but he  is not sure if he is really afflicted as he says.  For seven years he tests the youth and tries  to trick him into talking. Once they are called  upon by a man who has intolerable headaches.  Loqman gives him a potion that makes him  unconscious, and then Loqman removes the  top of the man’s head. Inside he sees an eight-  legged creature, but he cannot capture it for  removal. The young man forgets his trickery  and tells Loqman to heat a tong and remove  the creature. The trick works but the youth  is now in danger of losing his life because he  has learned Loqman’s secrets. He hides and  no   matter   how   hard   Loqman   searches   for  him, he cannot be found. In time Loqman  grows old and knows that he soon will die. He  visits the young man’s mother and asks how  he might find the youth. Finally the assistant  comes back, and the two are reconciled. Loq -  man next has the youth brew a special potion  that will restore his life, but the youth only  gives him one drop, and Loqman soon dies.  The assistant has nightmares about Loqman’s  death and spends many years wandering the  countryside. For 25 years he wanders aim -  lessly about until one evening he comes to  the house of a bishop, where the bishop’s wife  is in labor. The assistant then calls on the  knowledge of healing that he has learned from  Loqman and assists the woman in delivering  the baby. From that point on, he overcomes  his nightmares and is able to sleep peacefully  until one day he, too, dies.  See also:   snake  Purusha   (man)   In   Hindu   mythology,   the  primeval male, according to some accounts.  The   title   is   sometimes   applied   to   the   god  Brahma, and Purushottama (best of men) is  used   for   the   god   Vishnu   or   for   any   deity  regarded as supreme.  See also:   brahma; vishnu  Pushan   (nourisher)   In Hindu mythology, a  sun god, keeper of herds and bringer of pros -  perity. Pushan protects and multiplies cattle, is  a guide on roads and journeys, and is patron  god of conjurers, especially those who discover  stolen goods. He is also connected with mar -  riage and is invoked to bless the bride. Pushan  is toothless because the god Shiva knocked out  his teeth. As a result he eats gruel and is known  as   Karambhad   (pap).   In   Indian   art   Pushan  is often portrayed carrying an ox goad in a  chariot drawn by goats.  See also:   shiva  Pushpa-danta   In   Hindu   mythology,   one  of the eight elephants that protects the eight  points of the compass. Pushpa-danta is also an  attendant of Shiva, condemned to be reborn  as a man for recounting a private conversation  between Shiva and his wife Parvati.  See also:   shiva  Puss in Boots   Popular world folktale, best  known in Perrault’s version,   Chat botté   (1697),  and as one of the tales omitted in the final col -  lection of the Grimm Brothers’   Kinder- und  Hausmärchen.   In the story a cat aids his master  by devising ruses for his enemies. In most  western European versions the cat is the animal  helper, but a fox appears in eastern European  variants, a jackal in Indian tales, and a monkey  in Philippine versions.  See also:   perrault, charles  Pu-tai   Ho-shang   (hemp bag master)   In  Chinese Buddhism, an eccentric monk regard -  ed as a manifestation of Maitreya, the Buddha  of the Future, portrayed as a fat man with the  806   Purusha

=== 페이지 824 ===
upper part of his body exposed. Called the  Laughing Buddha, he is often shown with a  bundle of papers and a pilgrim’s staff or a fly-  whisk. He is also shown carrying a hemp bag  and surrounded by children. The hemp bag is  said to contain junk he picked up. He called  it “The Bag of Wonderful Things,” and the  children would crowd around as he drew mys -  terious objects out of it and gave them away. In  Japanese mythology he is called Hotei o-sho.  See also:   maitreya  Putana   (stinking)   In   Hindu   mythology,   a  demoness   who   attempted   to   kill   the   infant  Krishna (an incarnation of the god Vishnu)  by suckling him to death. Her breasts were  filled with poison, but Krishna suckled and  dried them up, and she died. In Hindu folklore  Putana is regarded as a demoness who causes  disease in children.  See also:   krishna; vishnu  Pyan-ras-gsigs   In   Tibetan   Buddhism,  name of Avalokiteshvara, the Bodhisattva of  Perfect Compassion, one of the five Dhyani-  Bodhisattvas, who is known as Kuan-Yin in  China and Kwannon in Japan; also an indepen -  dent entity. In Pure Land Buddhist iconography  he is, together with Mahasthemaprapta, one of  the two Bodhisattvas attendant on Amitabha  Buddha. He is recognized by the small figure  of Amitabha in his crown and is often shown  holding a lotus, in which the devotee is reborn  into the Pure Land.  See also:   amitabha; avalokiteshvara; bod -  hisattva;   dhyani-bodhisattvas;   kuan-yin;  kwannon; mahasthemaprapta  Pyerun   (Perun, Peruw) (to strike, to thunder)  In Slavic mythology, god of thunder and war. He  had a golden beard and rode a flaming chariot  across the sky, piercing the clouds with his mirac -  ulous bow. The oak was his sacred tree.  The idol of Pyerun was erected under the  open sky in Kiev, Russia, and served by the  kniaz   (a prince), the military chief of the city. It  is believed, therefore, that his cult was in many  ways a warrior cult. When Prince Vladimir  of Kiev (who was later sainted by the Russian  church) was converted to Byzantine orthodoxy  in 988, he ordered the image of Pyerun to be  cut down and thrown into the river. The god’s  attributes were transferred to other figures in  Russian folklore and mythology.  In White Russian mythology Pyerun lost his  chariot but still roamed the sky with his bow.  The folk hero Ilya Muromets, though a Chris -  tian, possessed some of the attributes of Pyerun,  and the prophet Elijah from the Old Testament  also was identified with the god because he  ascended to heaven in a fiery chariot (2 Kings  2:11). (In the Russian church Elijah is called  Iliya the Prophet, and his feast day is 20 July.)  Variants of Pyerun’s name among Slavic  peoples are Perkunas, the Lithuanian god who  created the universe from the warmth of his  body; Perkons, the Lettish god of thunder and  lightning; Piorun among the Poles; Peranu  among the Bohemians, and Peroon among the  Serbians.  See also:   dazhbog; elijah; ilya muromets;  oak; vladimir, st. Four-handed Avalokiteshvara  Pyerun   807

=== 페이지 825 ===
Pygmalion   (shaggy fist)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, a king (or sculptor) of Cyprus, who made  a statue of a woman and fell in love with it.  Pygmalion   prayed   to   Aphrodite,   goddess   of  love, to help him, and she turned the statue into  a living woman called Galatea. Galatea bore  Pygmalion’s son, Paphus. The story is told in  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 10), which in part  inspired the final scene of the living statue in  Shakespeare’s   Winter’s Tale.   A one-act opera by  Rameau also treats the tale. William Morris’s  Earthly Paradise   recounts the myth, and George  Bernard Shaw’s   Pygmalion   also uses it. Shaw’s  play was the basis for the musical play   My Fair  Lady.   The movie   One Touch of Venus,   with a score  by Kurt Weill and starring Ava Gardner, also  uses the story, but in the movie it is a statue of  Venus that comes alive in a department store.  See also:   aphrodite; ovid; venus  Pyramid   Texts   Ancient   Egyptian   texts  found in the pyramid of King Unas of the  Fifth Dynasty, as well as in other pyramids  of the Sixth Dynasty. The texts, engraved on  the walls, consist of prayers, magic formulas,  and various rubrics to help the deceased in his  journey to the other world.  See also:   book of the dead, the; coffin  texts  Pyramus and Thisbe   In Greek and Roman  mythology, two lovers. Pyramus and Thisbe  lived in adjoining houses in Babylon. They  were forbidden to see or speak to each other  by their feuding families. They managed, how -  ever, to whisper through a chink in the wall  separating the two properties. One day they  agreed to meet at night in a wooded spot out -  side the city. Thisbe, arriving first, was fright -  ened by a lion and fled, dropping her scarf.  Pyramus, reaching the spot later, found the  lion’s footprints and the torn scarf. Believing  Thisbe dead, he killed himself by falling on his  sword. Thisbe returned, found Pyramus’s body,  and killed herself. From their blood the mul -  berry tree grew blood-red fruit. The tale is told  in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 4) and is played  out by Bottom the weaver and his friends in  Shakespeare’s   A   Midsummer   Night’s   Dream.  Pyramus and Thisbe are also reminiscent of  Shakespeare’s   Romeo and Juliet.   The tale is also  told by Chaucer in his   Legend of Good Women  and by Gower in   Confession Amantis.   Poussin  painted a canvas called   Pyramus and Thisbe.  See also:   mulberry; ovid  Pythia   (she who discovers)   In Greek ritual,  priestess of Apollo at Delphi, who delivered  oracles called the Pythia. Her name is derived,  according   to   some   accounts,   from   Python  (serpent), a giant snake that was produced by  Gaea, goddess of earth, and haunted Mount  Parnassus. The etymology is supposed to con -  nect Python with   pythein,   “to rot,” because the  serpent’s body rotted on the site, but it is more  likely to derive from   pynthanein,   “discover by  asking.” The monster was slain in the cave at  Delphi by Apollo with his first arrow. A sacred  rite, called the Pythian Games, was enacted in  ancient Greece to commemorate the event. A  bronze column in the form of a three-headed  snake supporting a gold tripod was placed at the  site. The myth is told in the Homeric Hymn to  Pythian Apollo (attributed to Homer but not by  him) and Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 1). Keats’s  Hymn to Apollo   and Byron’s   Childe Harold   (III,  81) make reference to Pythia.  See also:   apollo; delphi; ovid  808   Pygmalion

=== 페이지 826 ===
6  809  Q  Qat   In Melanesian mythology, hero, trick -  ster,   and   creator   god,   whose   companion   is  Marawa, a spider.  Qat, according to some accounts, made the  first humans by shaping wood into men and  women and beguiling them into life. His com -  panion, Marawa, did the same. But when Mar -  awa’s figures began to move, he buried them in  a pit. Seven days later Marawa dug them up and  found only rotting corpses. That is why there is  death in the world. In other accounts Marawa  is a wood sprite who aids Qat in various adven -  tures. Once he saves him from his evil brothers,  called Tagaro, who try to crush him to death.  Another myth tells how Qat brought night into  the world. His brothers complained because the  sun always shone and they could not rest. So  Qat went to Oong (night) for help. He then told  his brothers how to fall asleep. When the cock  crowed, he took a red flint stone and cut Oong,  causing the dawn. In other sections of Melanesia,  Qat’s adventures are credited to Tagaro.  See also:   ask and embla; spider; tagaro;  trickster  Questing   Beast   In   Arthurian   legend,   a  monster   called   Glatisaunt,   which   had   the  head of a serpent, the buttocks of a lion, the  body of a leopard, and the feet of a deer.  It made “the noise of 30 couple of hounds  questing   [baying],”   according   to   Malory’s  Morte   d’Arthur.   The   Questing   Beast   was  hunted   by   King   Pellinore,   who   was   later  killed by Sir Gawaine to avenge the death of  Gawaine’s father, King Lot.  See also:   gwain; lot, king  Quetzalcoatl   (feathered   serpent,   precious  serpent, precious twin)   In Toltec mythology,  wind god. Another Quetzalcoatl was a culture  hero. In his purely mythical form the god  Quetzalcoatl was one of four brothers born in  the 13th heaven. Of the four, one was called  the black and one the red Tezcatlipoca, and  the fourth was Huitzilopochtli. Tezcatlipoca  (the   black   and   red   are   combined)   was   the  wisest. He knew all thoughts and could see  into the future. At a certain time the four  gathered together and consulted concerning  creation. The work was left to Quetzalcoatl  and Huitzilopochtli. First they made fire, then  half a sun, the heavens, the waters, and a great  fish called Cipactli; from Cipactli’s flesh they  made the solid earth.  The first people were Cipactonal, a man,  and Oxomuco, a woman. They had a son, but  there was no wife for him to marry, so the four  gods made one out of the hair taken from the  head of their divine mother, Zochiquetzal.  The half sun created by Quetzalcoatl and  Huitzilopochtli was a poor light for the world,  and the four brothers came together to find a

=== 페이지 827 ===
means of adding another half to the sun. Not  waiting for their decision, Tezcatlipoca trans -  formed himself into a sun. The other brothers  then filled the world with giants, who tore up  the trees with their hands. After some time  Quetzalcoatl took a stick and “with a blow of  it knocked Tezcatlipoca from the sky into the  waters.” He then made himself the sun. Tez -  catlicopa transformed himself into a tiger and  emerged from the waves, attacking and devour -  ing the giants; then, passing to the nocturnal  heavens, he became the constellation of the  Great Bear.  As the sun, Quetzalcoatl made the earth  flourish, but Tezcatlipoca was merely biding his  time. When the right moment came, Tezcatli -  poca appeared in his tiger form and gave Quet -  zalcoatl such a blow with his paw that it hurled  him from the skies. Quetzalcoatl then swept  the earth with a violent tornado that destroyed  all of the inhabitants except for a few “who  were changed into monkeys.” Then, when Tez -  catlipoca placed Tlaloc, the rain god, as the sun  in the heavens, Quetzalcoatl “poured a flood  of fire upon the earth, drove Tlaloc from the  sky, and placed in his stead, as sun, the goddess  Chalchiutlicue, the Emerald Skirted, wife of  Tlaloc.” When she ruled as sun, the earth was  flooded, and all humans were drowned again  except for those who were changed into fishes.  As a result, “the heavens themselves fell, and  the sun and stars were alike quenched.”  The two then realized that their struggle  had to end, so they united “their efforts and  raised again the sky, resting it on two mighty  trees, the Tree of the Mirror ( tezcaquahuitl ) and  the Beautiful Great Rose Tree ( quetzalveixo -  chitl ) on which the concave heavens have ever  since securely rested.”  The earth still had no sun to light it, and  the four brothers met again. They decided to  make a sun, one that would “eat the hearts and  drink the blood of victims, and there must be  wars upon the earth, that these victims could be  obtained for the sacrifice.” Quetzalcoatl then  built a great fire and took his son, born of his  own flesh without any mother, and cast him into  the flames, “whence he rose into the sky as the  sun which lights the world.” Tlaloc then threw  his   son into the flames, creating the moon.  The Quetzalcoatl of that myth is a god.  Another Quetzalcoatl is a culture hero, a high  priest of the city of Tula. He was the teacher  of arts, the wise lawgiver, the virtuous prince,  the master builder, and the merciful judge. He  lived a life of fasting and prayer.  The feathered serpent Quetzalcoatl  810   Quetzalcoatl

=== 페이지 828 ===
The hero (not the god) Quetzalcoatl either  came   as   a   stranger   to   the   Aztecs   from   an  unknown land or was born in Tula, where  he reigned as priest-king. For many years he  ruled the city and at last began to build a very  great temple. While it was being constructed  Tezcatlipoca (who in other myths is a creator-  trickster god but here is a demonic force, or  sorcerer) came to Quetzalcoatl one day and  told him that toward Honduras, in a place  called Tlapallan, a house was ready for him.  He should leave Tula and go to live and die in  the new home.  Quetzalcoatl said that the heavens and the  stars had already warned him that after four  years he must leave, and he would therefore  obey. He left with all of the inhabitants of Tula.  Some he left in Cholula and others in Cem -  poal. At last he reached Tlapallan, and on the  day he arrived he fell sick and died.  There is another, better-known account in  the   Annals of Cuauhtitlan.   When those opposed  to Quetzalcoatl did not succeed in their designs  to rid themselves of his presence, they sum -  moned Tezcatlipoca. He said: “We will give  him a drink to dull his reason, and we will show  him his own face in a mirror, and surely he will  be lost.”  Then   Tezcatlipoca   brewed   an   intoxicat -  ing drink, the pulque, and taking a mirror he  wrapped it in a rabbit skin and went to Quet -  zalcoatl’s house.  “Go tell your master,” he said to the servants,  “that I have come to show him his own flesh.”  “What is this?” asked Quetzalcoatl when  the message was delivered. “What does he call  my own flesh? Go and ask him.” But Tezcatli -  poca said he would speak only with Quetzal -  coatl. He was then admitted into the presence  of Quetzalcoatl.  “Welcome, youth. You have troubled your -  self much. Whence come you? What is this, my  flesh, that you would show me?”  “My lord and priest,” replied Tezcatlipoca,  “I come from the mountainside of Nonoalco.  Look now at your flesh; know yourself; see  yourself as you are seen by others.” And with  that he handed him the mirror.  As soon as Quetzalcoatl saw his face in the  mirror, he said: “How is it possible my subjects  can look on me without affright? Well might  they flee from me. How can a man remain  among them filled as I am with foul sores, his  face wrinkled and his aspect loathsome? I shall  be seen no more: I shall no longer frighten my  people.”  But Tezcatlipoca said he could conceal the  defects on Quetzalcoatl’s face. He painted the  ruler’s cheeks green and dyed his lips red. The  forehead he colored yellow, and, taking the  feathers of the quetzal bird, he made a beard.  Quetzalcoatl looked at himself in the mirror  and was pleased with the artifice.  Then Tezcatlipoca took the strong pulque  he had brewed and gave some to Quetzalcoatl,  who became drunk. He called his attendants  and asked that his sister Quetzalpetlatl come to  him. She instantly obeyed and, drinking some  of the pulque, also became drunk.  It is not clear whether Quetzalcoatl slept  with his sister in the myth, but the next morn -  ing he said, “I have sinned, the stain on my  name can never be erased. I am not fit to rule  this people. Let them build for me a habitation  deep underground; let them bury my bright  treasures   in   the   earth;   let   them   throw   the  gleaming gold and shining stone into the holy  fountain where I take my daily bath.”  He   then   journeyed   eastward   to   a   place  where the sky, land, and water met. There his  attendants built a funeral pyre, and he threw  himself into the flames. As his body burned  his heart rose to heaven, and after four days he  became the planet Venus, the Morning Star.  In a variant of the end of the legend, Quetzal -  coatl departed on a raft toward the east, saying he  would one day return. When Spanish conquista -  dor Hernán Cortés arrived in the 16th century,  the Aztecs believed that their hero had returned  to them as he had promised, a belief that helped  seal their doom. The conflict between the two  cultures is told in W. H. Prescott’s   The History of  Quetzalcoatl   811

=== 페이지 829 ===
the Conquest of Mexico   and in the novels   The Fair  God   by Lew Wallace and   Captain from Castile  by Samuel Shellabarger, which was made into  a film.  See also:   tezcatlipoca  Quiracus,   St.   (third   century)   In   Christian  legend, bishop of Ostia who was stabbed in  the back and beheaded. His dog retrieved and  returned his head, and he appears in medieval art  holding his head in his hands. Feast, 23 August.  812   Quiracus, St.

=== 페이지 830 ===
6  813  r  Ra   (Re,   Phra,   Pre)   (sun,   creator,   creative  power?)   In Egyptian mythology, the major sun  god, often merged with the god Amun, forming  the composite god Amun-Ra. He was the King  of the Gods, on earth and later from heaven.  One of the first acts of creation in Egyp -  tian mythology was the appearance of Ra’s sun  disk above the waters of Nun (chaos). Time  was said to have begun with the first rising of  Ra. Because the Egyptians believed that the  sun was made of fire and could not have risen  directly out of the waters of chaos without  some means of conveyance, it was assumed  that Ra made his journey over the waters in  a boat. The morning boat was called Matet  (becoming strong) and the evening boat, Sem -  ktet (becoming weak). The course of Ra was  said to have been mapped out by the goddess  Maat, who was the personification of physi -  cal and moral law. In the evening after the  sun had set in the west, Ra entered Duat, the  underworld. With the help of the gods there  he successfully passed through that region in a  boat and appeared in the sky the next morning.  As he passed through Duat he gave air, light,  and food to those who were condemned to live  there. Two fishes, Abtu and Ant, swam before  Ra’s boat and acted as pilots.  Each morning just before he left Duat and  was about to enter the sky, Ra engaged in a  battle with Apophis, a giant serpent and night  demon. Apophis’s attacks failed because Ra cast  a spell on him, making the monster incapable  of moving. Then the supporters of the sun  god bound Apophis in chains and hacked him  to pieces, after which he was destroyed by the  flames of Ra—symbolic of the sun destroying  the vapors and dampness of the night. In the  Books of the Overthrowing of Apophis   a ritual is  prescribed to be recited daily in the temple of  Amun-Ra at Thebes. It cataloged in great detail Ra

=== 페이지 831 ===
the destruction that was to befall Apophis and  his monstrous helpers, Sebau and Nak.  All of the kings of Egypt in the early empire  believed themselves to be the sons of Ra. It  was said that whenever the divine blood of the  kings needed replenishing, the god took the  form of the reigning king of Egypt and visited  the queen in her chamber, becoming then the  true father of the child born to her. When  the child was born, it was regarded as the god  incarnate. In due time it was presented to the  sun god in his temple. This gave the priests of  Ra great power in Egypt.  One   myth,   however,   tells   how   Ra   was  almost   destroyed   by   the   goddess   Isis,   who  sought his true name. The ancients believed  that to possess the true name of a god enabled  one to have power over him. Many gods had  more than one name, one by which the god  was generally known and another that might be  called his real name, which he kept secret lest it  come into the hands of his enemies, who would  use it against him. Isis once wished to make Ra  reveal to her his greatest and most secret name.  “Cannot I by means of the sacred name of God  make myself mistress of the earth and become a  goddess of like rank and power to Ra in heaven  and upon earth?” she asked. Using her magic  skill, she made a venomous reptile out of dust  mixed with Ra’s spittle, and by uttering certain  words of power over the reptile she made it  sting Ra as he passed through the heavens. The  sun god, finding himself on the point of death,  was forced to reveal his hidden name. Having  achieved her goal, Isis spoke an incantation  that drained the poison from Ra’s limbs, and  the god recovered.  In the Fifth Dynasty, when the cult of the  man-god Osiris spread over the delta region  from Busiris (the northern center of the cult)  and throughout Upper Egypt from Abydos  (the southern center), the priests of the sun  god fought to maintain Ra’s authority. How -  ever, before the end of the Sixth Dynasty the  cult of Osiris prevailed, and Ra was relegated  to an inferior position, with the greatest of his  attributes ascribed to Osiris. From the Twelfth  Dynasty onward all of the attributes of Ra were  absorbed by Amun, who was the dominant god  of Upper Egypt. During the 19th and 20th  dynasties 75 forms of Ra were known, consti -  tuting part of a litany to Ra, which is believed  to have been sung   Eye of Ra   during services  in the temples. The litany was painted on the  walls of several tombs, such as those of Seti I  and Rameses IV.  Ra was connected at a very early period  with the hawk god Horus, who personified  the height of heaven, and in Egyptian art Ra  is usually portrayed as a hawk-headed man and  sometimes simply in the form of a hawk. On  his head he wears the disk of the sun encircled  by a serpent. When he appears in human form,  he holds the ankh, sign of life, in his right hand  and a scepter in his left. Mau, the great cat, is  sometimes equated with Ra. In this form he  cuts off the head of the evil monster serpent  Apophis. From the 26th century   b.c.e.   to the  Roman period, all kings and rulers in Egypt  referred to themselves as Sons of Ra.  See also:   amun; ankh; apophis; duat; horus;  isis; maat; osiris  Rabbi Eliezer   Jewish folktale found in the  Talmud. Rabbi Eliezer, who was as much distin -  guished by the greatness of his mind as by the  extraordinary size of his body, once paid a visit  to Rabbi Simon. The learned Simon received  Eye of Ra  814   Rabbi Eliezer

=== 페이지 832 ===
him most cordially and, filling a cup with wine,  handed it to him. Eliezer took it and drank it  off in one gulp. Another cup was poured, and  it went just as quickly. “Brother Eliezer,” said  Simon jestingly, “remember what the wise men  have said on this subject of drinking?” “I well  remember,” answered the corpulent Eliezer,  “the   saying   of   our   instructors—that   people  ought not to take a cup at one draught, but,”  he added, “the wise men have not so defined  their rule to admit of no exceptions. And in this  instance, friend Simon, there are no less than  three: the cup is small, the receiver large, and  your wine delicious!”  See also:   talmud  Rabbit and the Tiger, The   A Korean tale  of animal trickery. A little rabbit wakes up  from a nice nap only to find a huge tiger wait -  ing to devour him. The rabbit has to think of  a way to get out of the situation alive, so he  says he will offer the tiger some rice cakes to  help fill him up. The tiger agrees, and the  rabbit quickly hops behind a stone and fetch -  es 11 smooth stones. The tiger is suspicious,  but the rabbit convinces him to wait until he  has a chance to cook them in the fire. When  the fire is really hot, the rabbit places the  stones on the coals, then tells the tiger he has  to go get some soy sauce for them. He says  that there are 10 rice cakes and that the tiger  should not eat any until he can return. The  tiger promises not to eat any but becomes  impatient and looks at the stones in the fire.  There are eleven, so he decides to test one.  The red-hot stone causes him great pain, and  he screams and jumps when the stone burns  his mouth, his throat, and then his stomach.  For the longest time he cannot eat anything.  One day he spots the rabbit again, and this  time he decides to eat him quickly before he  can fall for another trick. The rabbit assures  the tiger that he is on his way to the tiger’s  cave to tell him how to open his mouth and  catch all the birds he can eat. The tiger has  to stand in an open field with his mouth open  while the rabbit shoos the birds from the field  into the tiger’s mouth. To pass time the tiger  opens his mouth and closes his eyes, thinking  of all of the birds he is about to eat. In the  distance he can hear the rabbit saying “shoo,  shoo.” But then he hears another sound, a  crackling and sizzling sound, and when he  opens his eyes the field of weeds around him  is in flames. The tiger knows that he has once  again been tricked and hurried away, but he  has to run through the flames and is badly  burned. Thus he has to spend painful days  and weeks lying in his cave.  See also:   fire; rabbit; tiger; trickster  Rabi’a al-’Adawiya   (714–801)   In Islamic  legend, saint and mystic; born in a poor home,  she was kidnapped and sold into slavery. She  gained her freedom, however, and gathered  around her a group of followers. Her life was  one of extreme asceticism and otherworldli -  ness; she was noted especially for her sayings  dealing with mystic love.  She is credited with many miracles, such as  feeding a crowd on very little food. One legend  tells of a camel that she restored to life after it  had died during a pilgrimage. When she was  dying she asked that all of her friends leave so  that the messengers of Allah would have free  access to her. Her friends could then hear her  reciting the end of sura 89 of the Koran: “O  thou my soul which art at rest, return unto thy  Lord, well pleased with thy reward, and well  pleasing unto Allah; enter among my servants;  and enter my paradise.”  She appeared in a vision after her death and  told how she answered the angels Munkar and  Nakir when they questioned her: “I said, return  and tell your Lord, ’Notwithstanding the thou -  sands and thousands and thousands of Thy  creatures, Thou hast not forgotten a weak old  woman. I, who had only Thee in all the world,  have never forgotten Thee, that Thou shouldst  ask, Who is thy Lord?’”  The tradition that angels appear to the soul  immediately after death to impose a minor  Rabi’a al-’Adawiya   815

=== 페이지 833 ===
judgment before the final major judgment at  the end of the world is a late belief.  See also:   camel; munkar and nakir  Rabican   In the Charlemagne cycle of leg -  ends, a horse that fed on air and was unsur -  passed for swiftness. He appears in Ariosto’s  Orlando Furioso.  See also:   charlemagne; roland  Rachel   (ewe, sheep)   In the Bible, O.T., the  younger   daughter   of   Laban.   Rachel   is   one  of Jacob’s wives and is the mother of Joseph  and Benjamin. Jacob serves his uncle Laban  in Maran “twice seven” years in exchange for  Rachel’s hand. Rachel’s marriage to Jacob is ini -  tially thwarted by her father, who wants Jacob  to marry his elder daughter Leah. He tricks  Jacob into marrying Leah, then has Jacob work  a second seven-year period to obtain Rachel.  After   the   marriage   Rachel   remains   barren,  while Leah bears Jacob six sons and a daughter.  In jealous desperation, Rachel sends her hand -  maiden, Billah, to sleep with Jacob, and Billah  bears two sons. Then Leah sends her hand -  maiden to Jacob, who also bears him two sons.  Finally, Yahweh blesses Jacob, and Rachel gives  birth to Joseph. Rachel dies at Eprath giving  birth to a second son, Benjamin. Jacob erects  a pillar over her grave, “the pillar of Rachel’s  grave unto this day” (Gen. 35:20). Rachel and  Leah appear in Dante’s   The Divine Comedy  (Purgatory, canto 27), where they are seen as  types of the contemplative and active life.  See also:   benjamin; jacob; leah  Radegund,   St.   (c.   520–587)   The   young  woman Radegund is married against her will  but is, nevertheless, a good and faithful wife  who dies at a young age. When thieves try to  take the golden wedding ring from her skel -  eton, she is said to fold her hands into a fist to  keep them from removing it. This is the mir -  acle that establishes her sainthood. The small  village of St. Radegund near Graz, Austria, is  named in her honor.  radish   A small, potent, edible root. During  the Jewish feast of Passover radishes are a part  of the traditional meal. In today’s celebrations  of the rite the radish is symbolic of spring and a  sign of “the perpetual renewal of life and ever -  sustaining hope of human redemption.”  See also:   passover  Ragnarok   (judgment   by   the   powers)   In  Norse mythology, the final battle between the  gods and the giants that will bring about the  end of the world. The battle will take place at  Vigrith (field of battle). The destruction, how -  ever, will not be the complete end. The   Prose  Edda   gives an account of a new “earth most  lovely and verdant, and with pleasant fields  where the grain shall grow unsown.” Some of  the gods will return, such as Baldur and Hodur  from Hel, the underworld, and a new couple,  Lifthrasir and Lif (life), will repeople the land  “and their descendants shall soon spread over  the whole earth.” The   Poetic Edda   contains a  description of the end in the poem   Voluspa.  Wagner’s last music drama in the cycle   Der  Ring des Nibelungen,   titled   Götterdämmerung,  deals with the destruction of the gods.  See also:   baldur; gjallar-horn; heimdall;  hodur; lif; lifthrasir; loki; odin;   ring des  nibelungen, der ; thor  Rahu   (the   seizer)   In   Hindu   mythology,   a  demon who seizes the sun and moon, caus -  ing eclipses. It is also the name for eclipses.  Rahu has four arms, and his body ends in a  dragon’s tail. When the gods and demons were  fighting for the Amrita, the water of life, at  the Churning of the Ocean, Rahu disguised  himself and drank some of the Amrita. When  the sun and moon saw what he had done, they  told the god Vishnu, who then cut off Rahu’s  head and two of his arms. Rahu, however, had  gained immortality by drinking the Amrita,  and his body was placed in the heavens. The  upper part is represented by a dragon’s head,  the ascending node, and the lower part, the  descending node.  816   Rabican

=== 페이지 834 ===
The   Vishnu Purana,   one of the 18 Pura -  nas, tells how “eight black horses draw the  dusky chariot of Rahu, and once harnessed  are attached to it for ever.   .   .   . Rahu directs his  course from the sun to the moon, and back  again from the moon to the sun.”  Rahu is also called Abhra-pisacha (the demon  of the sky) and Kabandha (the headless).  See also:   amrita; churning of the ocean;  puranas  Raiden   (Raijin,   Kaminarisan)   In   Japanese  mythology, thunder god, portrayed with the  features of a demon: horns on his head, a  tusk, and a wide mouth. Sometimes he car -  ries a circle of 12 round, flat drums, which he  beats with sticks; or he is portrayed caught by  Uzume, goddess of mirth, who is shown in her  bath. Raiden likes to eat navels. Thus, children  are dressed to cover their abdomens.  Railroad Bill   In American folklore, a black  man from Escambia County, Alabama, who can  transform himself into an animal when pursued  by the law.  See also:   shape-shifter  Rainbow   Snake   In Australian mythology,  name of the gigantic snake whose body arches  across the sky as the rainbow. Known as Taipan  among the Wikmunkan people, he is associated  with the gift of blood to humankind, control -  ling the circulation of the blood as well as the  menstrual cycle of women. Looked on as a  At Ragnarok, Thor attacks the Midgard Serpent with his hammer while  Odin does battle with Fenrir, the wolf   (  Ragnarok,   by Johannes Gehrts)  Rainbow Snake   817

=== 페이지 835 ===
great healer, Taipan demands that his sexual  laws and customs be followed. His anger at  the breaking of any of them is expressed by  thunder and lightning. Medicine men and rain  makers invoke Taipan by using quartz crystal  and seashells in their rituals. Called Julunggul  among the people of the eastern Arnhem Land,  the   Rainbow   Snake   is   believed   to   swallow  young boys and later vomit them up. This is  symbolic of their rebirth, or the transition from  youth to manhood. Known as Kunmanggur in  a myth told by the Murinbata of the north -  west of the Northern Territory to W. Stanner,  the   Rainbow   Snake   is   either   bisexual   or   a  woman. Sometimes he is described as a male  but is portrayed with female breasts. Other  names by which the Rainbow Snake is known  in Australia are Galeru, Ungur, Wonungur,  Worombi, Wonambi, Wollunqua, Yurlunggur,  Langal, Muit, and Yero.  See also:   walwalag sisters  Rais, Gilles de   (1404–1440)   In medieval  history and legend, marshal of France who  fought with St. Joan of Arc against the English  invaders. He was accused of sorcery, as was  Joan, and was executed for heresy and the rape  and murder of children. It is believed by some  scholars that the legend of Bluebeard is based  on his life.  See also:   bluebeard; joan of arc, st.  Raji   In Hindu mythology, a man who usurped  the throne of the storm god Indra. When there  was a war between the gods and demons, the  god Brahma declared that the victory should be  given to the side that Raji joined. The demons  sought Raji’s aid but would not make him king  as he requested. However, the gods promised  Raji that if he sided with them he would be  made king of the gods, and Indra, the king of  the gods, would worship him. After the demons  were defeated, Raji was made king of the gods  as promised. Later, when he returned to his  own city, he left Indra as his deputy in heaven.  On Raji’s death Indra refused to acknowledge  the succession of his sons (he had 500 sons) and  retained the title for himself.  See also:   brahma; indra  Rákóczi, Ferenc   (1675–1735)   In Hungarian  legend, prince who led a revolt against Austrian  oppression. According to some tales, he did not  die but is resting, waiting for the time to come  to Hungary’s aid. Rákóczi has given his name to  a well-known Hungarian marching tune used by  Hector Berlioz in his cantata   The Damnation of  Faust   and by Franz Liszt in Hungarian Rhapsody  No. 15, written in the 1840s.  See   also:   arthur; barbarossa; mátyás;  solomon  Rakshasas   (Raksasas) (to be guarded against)  In Hindu mythology, a class of demons under  the leadership of the demon king Ravana. In  the Hindu epic poem   The Ramayana,   when the  monkey chief Hanuman enters the Lanka (Sri  Lanka), Ravana’s capital, he sees “the Rakshasas  sleeping in the houses were of every shape and  form. Some of them disgusted the eye, while  some were beautiful to look upon. Some had  long arms and frightful shapes; some were very  fat and some were very lean; some were mere  dwarfs and some were very tall. Some had  only one eye and others only one ear. Some  had monstrous bellies, hanging breasts, long  protruding teeth, and crooked thighs, while  others were exceedingly beautiful to behold  and clothed in great splendor. Some had two  legs, some three legs, and some four legs. Some  had the heads of serpents, some the heads of  donkeys, some the heads of horses, and some  the heads of elephants.”  See also:   hanuman;   ramayana, the ; ravana  ram   In Egyptian mythology the ram, a male  sheep, was sacred to the god Khnum, who was  portrayed as a ram-headed god. A ram was  sacrificed to the god Amun-Ra once a year. It  was skinned and the skin placed over the image  of the god, recalling the time when Amun-  Ra was incarnated in the form of a ram. In  818   Rais, Gilles de

=== 페이지 836 ===
ancient Hebrew belief the ram was sacrificed  instead of Isaac when Isaac’s father, Abraham,  was commanded by god to sacrifice his son  (Gen. 22:13). In later Jewish folklore the ram  had been trapped in a thicket since the sixth  day of creation, waiting for Abraham’s sac -  rifice. From the bones of that sacrificed ram  the foundations of the Holy of Holies of the  Temple were built; the ram’s veins became the  strings for King David’s harp, and its skin was  made into the prophet Elijah’s belt and girdle;  its left horn made the shofar used by Moses on  Mount Sinai; and its right horn the shofar that  the prophet Elijah will blow on Mount Moriah  to announce the coming of the Messiah. In  Islamic belief Abraham’s ram was admitted into  heaven. In Hindu mythology the ram is the  steed or mount of the fire god Agni.  See also:   abraham; agni; amun; david; eli -  jah; isaac; khnum; moses; ra; yahweh  Ram   In Persian mythology, spirit of the air,  or angel, who receives the good soul on its way  to the other world after death.  Rama   (charming)   In   Hindu   mythology,   a  hero,   chief   character   in   the   epic   poem   by  Valmiki,   The Ramayana.   In some Hindu texts,  such as Tulasi Das’s vernacular version of the  Sanskrit   Ramayana,   titled   Ramacheritamanasa  (the holy lake of the acts of Rama), Rama is  regarded as an incarnation of the god Vishnu.  As such, Rama, along with his wife Sita, is  worshipped in many parts of India. One line in  Tulasi Das’s epic captures the love of the people  for their hero god: “Rama knows the hearts of  all; in him dwell meekness, love, and mercy.  Comfort your heart with this assurance, and  come, take rest.” Rama appears in Bhavabhuti’s  plays   The Acts of Rama   and   Later Acts of Rama.  Gandhi’s dying words were “Long live Rama,”  not “O God!” as recorded in the movie   Gandhi.  See also:   ramayana, the ; vishnu  Ramadan   (Ramazan)   In Islam, ninth month  of the lunar year; the time of an annual fast.  It is the only month mentioned in the Koran  (sura 2), which says that the Koran “was sent  down” from heaven in that month.  During Ramadan the believer is commanded  to fast the whole month every day, from the  first appearance of daybreak until sunset. He  must   abstain   from   eating,   drinking,   smok -  ing, smelling perfumes, and every unnecessary  indulgence or pleasure of a worldly nature,  even from knowingly swallowing his spittle.  When Ramadan falls in summer (since the year  is lunar, each month retrogrades through all of  the seasons in the course of about every 33 1/2  years) the fast is very severe. Therefore, per -  sons who are sick or on a journey and soldiers  in time of war are not obliged to fast. But if  they do not fast during Ramadan, they should  fast an equal number of days at another time.  Fasting is also dispensed with for nurses and  pregnant women.  ’Id al-Fitr, commonly called   al-’id al-saghir,  or the lesser festival, is a feast for the breaking  of the fast when Ramadan is ended. Alms are  dispensed, people give gifts, and there is gen -  eral celebration. In   Moby-Dick   Melville titled  chapter 17 “The Ramadan,” which refers to  Queequeg’s “fasting and humiliation.”  See also:   koran, the  Ramayana, The   (the tale of Rama)   Hindu  epic poem of 24,000   Shlokas   (48,000 lines),  attributed to the sage Valmiki in the third cen -  tury   c.e. . It is divided into seven   kandas,   books  of unequal length.  Bala-Kanda   (book 1). King Dasa-ratha ruled  over Ayodhya, a beautiful city. His one com -  plaint, however, was that he had no children.  He therefore performed a great sacrifice in  the   hope   of   obtaining   offspring.   The   gods  accepted his sacrifice, and Dasa-ratha received  the promise of four sons. At the request of the  god Brahma, the god Vishnu agreed to become  incarnate in the body of Rama, one of the four  sons to be born, and the other sons, Bharata  and the twins Lakshamana and Satru-ghna,  also shared some of Vishnu’s godhead.  Ramayana, The   819

=== 페이지 837 ===
While   King   Dasa-ratha   was   performing  the sacrifice, Vishnu appeared to him in full  glory from out of the sacrificial fire. Vishnu  gave the king a pot of nectar for his wives to  drink. Dasaratha gave half of the magic drink  to Kausalya, who became the mother of Rama;  a quarter to his wife Kaikeyi, who became the  mother of Bharata; and a fourth to his wife  Su-mitra, who became the mother of the twins  Lakshmana and Satru-ghna.  The   four   brothers   grew   up   together   at  Ayodhya. While they were still young, the sage  Viswamitra sought Rama’s help in protecting  him from demons who had been tormenting  him. Though unwilling to have his sons leave  his court, Dasa-ratha consented, and Rama and  Lakshmana went to the hermitage of Viswami -  tra. There Rama killed the demoness Taraka.  Viswamitra   had   earlier   supplied   Rama   with  magic arms that aided the hero in his conquest  of Taraka. After the defeat of the demoness,  Viswamitra took Rama and Lakshmana to the  court of Janaka, king of Videha. At the court  was Sita, daughter of the king, who was offered  in marriage to anyone who could bend the  bow that had belonged to the god Shiva. Rama  not only bent the bow but broke it, winning  the hand of Sita. Rama’s brothers were also  married. Urmila, Sita’s sister, became the wife  of Lakshmana; Mandavi and Sruta-kriti, cous -  ins of Sita, became the wives of Bharata and  Satru-ghna.  Ayodhya-Kanda   (book 2). When the four  couples returned to Ayodhya, the king decided  to name Rama, his eldest, heir to the throne.  The announcement angered the king’s wife  Kaikeyi, the mother of Bharata. She reminded  the king that he had once promised her any two  wishes she asked. The angered king, realizing  what she wanted, swore to keep his word. The  queen then asked that Rama be banished for 14  years and that her son, Bharata, be appointed  viceroy in his place.  Rama, being a dutiful son, left with his  wife Sita and his brother Lakshmana for the  Dandaka forest. Soon after his departure King  Dasa-ratha died, and Bharata was called on to  be king. Bharata declined, leaving for the forest  to bring back Rama. When the two brothers  met there was a long discussion, Rama refusing  to return until the 14 years had been com -  pleted. It was agreed, however, that Bharata  should return and act as regent for Rama. As  a sign that Rama was king, Bharata brought  back a pair of Rama’s shoes, placing them on  the throne.  Aranya-Kanda   (book 3). Rama passed his  years of banishment moving from one her -  mitage to another. At last he arrived at the  hermitage of Argastya, a sage, near the Vid -  hya Mountains. Argastya told Rama to live  at Panchavati on the river Godavari. Rama’s  party went to live at Panchavati, but the area  was found to be infested with demons. One of  them, Surpa-nakha, a sister of the demon king  Ravana, fell in love with Rama. When Rama  rejected her advances, the demoness attacked  Sita. Lakshmana then cut off Surpa-nakha’s  ears and nose. Calling on her demon friends,  Surpa-nakha tried to avenge the wrong, but all  of the demons were destroyed. Surpa-nakha Vishnu, the god who becomes Rama  820   Ramayana, The

=== 페이지 838 ===
then went to her brother Ravana. He became  so excited by the physical description of Sita’s  beauty that he decided to abduct her. Ravana  took his magic cart and kidnapped Sita while  Rama was lured away from home by Maricha,  a demoness who took the form of a deer.  Kishkindha-Kanda   (book   4).   Rama   and  Lakshmana went in pursuit of Ravana. On  their way they killed Kabandha, a headless  monster whose disembodied spirit told Rama  to seek the aid of the king of the monkeys,  Sugriva. The two brothers went to Sugriva  and formed an alliance. They also obtained  the aid of the monkey leader Hanuman, son  of the wind god Vayu.  Sundara-Kanda   (book 5). With Hanuman’s  extraordinary   powers   of   leaping   and   flying,  the   monkey   armies   were   transported   over  Ramasetu (Rama’s bridge) and entered Lanka,  Ravana’s country.  Yuddha-Kanda   (book 6). After a series of  battles,   Lanka   was   conquered   and   Ravana  killed by Rama. Sita, to prove she had been  faithful to Rama, then underwent an ordeal of  fire. Sita entered the flames in the presence of  men and gods. Agni, the fire god, led her and  placed her in Rama’s arms unhurt after the  ordeal. Rama then returned to his kingdom  with his brothers.  Uttara-Kanda   (book   7).   Rama,   however,  could not rest, still having doubts of Sita’s faith -  fulness, especially since the populace doubted  that she had remained faithful. In order to  please   the   public   Rama   sent   Sita   away   to  spend the rest of her life at the hermitage of  the sage Valmiki (the supposed author of the  poem). There Sita had twin sons, Kusa and  Lava. When they were about 15 years old, they  wandered accidentally into Ayodhya and were  recognized by Rama as his children. Rama then  called Sita back. She declared in public that  she had been faithful to Rama, calling on the  earth to verify her words. The ground opened,  receiving “the daughter of the furrow.” Unable  to   live   without   Sita,   Rama   asked   the   gods  to release him. He was told by Time in the  form of an ascetic that he must stay on earth  or ascend to the heavens. Lakshmana tried to  save his brother from Time, but as a result was  sentenced to death and sent bodily to the storm  god Indra’s heaven. Rama then went to the  Sarayu River. Walking into the water, he heard  the voice of the god Brahma, and he entered  into heaven. In a variant ending to the epic,  Rama and Sita live happily together, and she is  not swallowed by the earth.  The story of Rama and Sita is acted every  autumn in many parts of India during a 10-day  celebration. At the end of the festival Ravana  and his demon hordes are burned in effigy. A  suite for orchestra,   Ramayana,   by the American  composer Bertram Shapleigh is based on the  epic poem.  See also:   agni; bharata; brahma; janaka;  lakshmana; ravana; shiva; vayu; viswamitra  Ran   (robbery)   In Norse mythology, wife of  the sea god Aegir. She caught the dead at sea  in her net and took them to her underworld.  Human sacrifices were made to Ran by pre-  Christian Scandinavian sailors before embark -  ing on a voyage. In northern folklore, when she  lost her status as goddess, she became a siren  who was often seen reclining on the shores  combing her hair. In Sweden the spirit Sjöran  is believed to be derived from Ran. The ken -  ning for waves is “Ran’s way.”  See also:   aegir; sjoran  Rangda   (witch)   In Balinese folklore, a witch  who appears together with Barong, the dragon,  in a folk play,   Tjalon Arang,   symbolizing male  and female sexual aspects.  See also:   yin and yang  Ranieri,   St.   (c.   1100–1161)   In   Christian  legend, patron saint of Pisa, Italy. Called St.  Ranieri dell Agua or St. Ranieri of Water.  Feast, 17 June.  St.   Ranieri’s   life   was   written   by   Canon  Benincasa, a personal friend, shortly after the  saint’s death. Ranieri spent his youth in plea -  Ranieri, St.   821

=== 페이지 839 ===
sure, but one day while he was playing on a lyre  amid his mistresses, a holy man passed by and  looked at him with pity. Struck with sudden  feelings of guilt for his past, Ranieri followed  the man. Shortly afterward he left for Jerusa -  lem, where he took off his rich garments and  wore a   schiavina,   or slave shirt, a tunic of coarse  wool with short sleeves. While doing penances  in the desert he had a vision of a silver and gold  vase set with jewels but filled with pitch, oil,  and sulfur. The contents were set on fire, and  the vase burned. A ewer full of water was put  near Ranieri. He placed his hands in it and put  two or three drops of water on the flames, and  they were extinguished. According to Jameson  in   Sacred and Legendary Art,   “The vase signi -  fied his human frame .   .   . the pitch and sulphur  burning within it were the appetites and pas -  sions .   .   . the water was the water of temper -  ance. Thenceforward Ranieri lived wholly on  coarse bread and water.”  Another legend tells of Ranieri and an inn -  keeper in Messina who diluted his wine, which  was then sold to his customers. St. Ranieri  revealed the fraud when he unmasked the devil,  seated on one of the wine casks in the shape of  a huge cat with batlike wings.  St.   Ranieri’s   life   was   painted   by   Simone  Memmi and Antonio Veneziano in Pisa in 1356.  Raphael   (God   has   healed)   In   the   Bible,  archangel in Jewish and Christian mythology,  patron of humanity. Feast: 21 September in the  Western church.  The most prominent role given to Raphael  is in the Book of Tobit in the Old Testament  Apocrypha. He acts as a companion and guide  to Tobit’s son Tobias and helps him rid Sara, the  intended wife of Tobias, from her demon-lover  Asmodeus, who had slain her seven previous  husbands. In Tobit (12:15) Raphael describes  himself as “one of the seven holy angels, which  present the prayers of the saints, and which  go in and out before the glory of the Holy  One.” According to Rabbi Abba in   The Zohar  I,   Raphael is “charged to heal the earth, and  through him .   .   . the earth furnishes an abode  for man, whom also he heals of his maladies.”  Raphael appears in Milton’s   Paradise Lost   as the  “sociable spirit” or as the “affable archangel.”  (VII, 40). He is often pictured accompanying  Tobias and shown holding a pilgrim’s staff and  a fish (which was used as the charm to rid Sara  of her demon-lover). Tobias, often shown as a  mere youth, walks close to the angel with his  dog nearby.  See also:   aneal; asmodeus  Rapithwin   In Persian mythology, god of the  noonday heat and the summer. When the good  god,   Ahura   Mazda,   performed   the   sacrifice  that created the world, it was at the time of  day belonging to Rapithwin. When Rapithwin  returns at springtime, it is a foreshadowing of  the final victory over evil by good, an event at  which he will be present.  See also:   ahura mazda  Rasetsu Ten   In Japanese Buddhist mythol -  ogy, king of demons, portrayed bearded and  with upright hair. He holds a sword in his  right hand. and his left hand is raised in a sign  of fearlessness. He is one of the Jiu No O, 12  Japanese Buddhist gods and goddesses adopted  from Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o; mudra  Rashnu   (just judge)   In Persian mythology,  angel of justice who weighs the good works  and sins in his golden scales when the soul’s  account is balanced in the third night after  death. Rashnu is assisted in his work by the  angel Astad. The soul is assisted in crossing the  “bridge of separation” by a fair maiden who  personifies the soul’s good deeds.  See also:   chinvat  Rat   In Egyptian mythology, wife of the sun  god Ra. She was called “mother of the gods,”  as Ra was called “father of the gods.” However,  she was really a late development in the cult of  Ra and amounts to little more than Ra’s name  822   Raphael

=== 페이지 840 ===
feminized. The sun god was said to have sired  the first divine couple without recourse to a  female. Rat was portrayed in Egyptian art as a  woman wearing on her head a disk with horns  and the uraeus. Sometimes there were two  feathers on the disk.  See also:   ra; uraeus  rat and mouse   A rat is a long-tailed rodent  resembling a mouse but much larger. The two  rodents are often confused in world mythol -  ogy   and   folklore.   In   Greek   mythology   the  mouse was sacred to Apollo in his role as  sender of plague. Apollo was appealed to as “O  Smintheus” (O mouse) when he was invoked in  his role as plague sender. Many ancient peoples  realized that there was a connection between  mice and plague, though the scientific explana -  tion was unknown to them. The mouse or rat,  therefore, often became a symbol of death.  The pagan Germans worshipped a goddess  called Nehalennia or Hludana, whose symbol  was a rat and whose function was to accompany  the souls of the dead. St. Gertrude, a 12th-  century saint, was also credited with helping  the souls of the dead and was nearly always  portrayed with a rat as her companion. One  German medieval tale tells how Bishop Hatto  was destroyed by mice and rats after he had his  flock burned to death in a barn where they had  gathered after he had promised them grain.  In America Walt Disney’s cartoon character  Mickey Mouse, who first appeared in   Steamboat  Willie,   has since sung his way to fortune, minus  his demonic character and genitals.  See also:   apollo; pied piper of hamelin  Ratatosk   (swift-tusked)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy, the squirrel that runs up and down the  cosmic or world tree, Yggdrasill, carrying abu -  sive language from the dragon Nidhogg at the  bottom of the tree to the eagle at the top, and  vice versa. Ratatosk appears in the   Poetic Edda  and the   Prose Edda.  See   also:   nidhogg;   poetic edda ;   prose  edda ; yggdrasill  Rati   (love play)   In Hindu mythology, god -  dess of love, wife of Rama, the god of love. Rati  is also called Kama-priya (beloved of Kama);  Raga-lata (vine of love); Mayavati (deceiver);  Kelikila (wanton); and Subhangi (fair-limbed).  See also:   kama  Ratnapani   (jewel   in   hand)   In   Mahayana  Buddhism, one of the five Dhyani-Bodhisattvas,  whose symbol is a magic jewel.  See also:   dhyani-bodhisattvas; mahayana  Rat   (Konrad Gesner)  Ratnapani   823

=== 페이지 841 ===
824   Introduction  The Council Held by the Rats   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 842 ===
Ratu-mai-mbulu   In Melanesian mythology,  Fijian serpent god of the dead, who lives in a  cave. A beneficent being, he causes trees and  crops to grow. One month of the year is dedi -  cated to him. During that month no singing or  dancing is allowed so as not to disturb the god.  Rausch, Bruder   (Brother Rush)   In Germanic  folklore, a house spirit who made people drunk.  He appears in English folklore as Friar Rush, and  his tale is told in a prose   History of Friar Rush.  Ravana   (screaming)   In   Hindu   mythology,  the demon king of Lanka (Sri Lanka), leader of  the Rakshasas, demons and evil spirits. Ravana  overthrew his brother Kubera (later made god  of wealth) and set himself up as king of Lanka.  Ravana was made invulnerable against gods and  demons by the god Brahma or Shiva because of  his penance and devotion to the god. The only  way Ravana could meet death was through a  woman, though in actuality he was killed by  the hero Rama for having abducted Rama’s  wife, Sita. In a sense, then, Ravana was killed  through a woman. In the Hindu epic poem   The  Ramayana,   Ravana is described as having “ten  heads, twenty arms, and copper-colored eyes,  and bright teeth like the moon. His form was  as a thick cloud or a mountain, or the god of  death with open mouth. He had all the marks  of royalty, but his body bore the impress of  wounds inflicted by all the divine arms in his  warfare with the gods. It was scarred by the  thunderbolt of Indra, by the tusks of Indra’s  elephant Airavata, and by the discus of Vishnu.  His strength was so great that he could agitate  the seas and split the tops of mountains. He  was a breaker of all laws and a ravisher of other  men’s wives.   .   .   . Tall as a mountain peak, he  stopped with his arms the sun and the moon in  their course, and prevented their rising.”  Ravana’s   deeds   cried   to   heaven.   Vishnu  came to earth in the form of Rama to destroy  the demon king. Rama cut off one of Ravana’s  heads with his sharp arrow, “but no sooner did  the head fall on the ground than another sprang  up in its place.” Rama then took an arrow that  had been given to him by the god Brahma. He  shot it at Ravana’s chest, and it came out of the  demon’s back, went into the ocean, and then  returned clean to Rama’s quiver. “Ravana fell to  the ground and died, and the gods sounded the  celestial music in the heavens, and assembled in  the sky and praised Rama.”  One sect in south India, however, assigns the  victory to Ravana and celebrates the demons’  victory over Rama.  Ravana was not alone in his evil works.  He was helped by the Naikasheyas, carnivo -  rous imps descended from Nikasha, mother of  Ravana. Sometimes his demon aides are called  Pistasanas or Nikashatmajas.  See also:   brahma; indra; kubera; raksha -  sas; rama;   ramayana, the ; shiva; vishnu  raven   A large black bird of the crow family  having a loud, harsh call. In Greek mythol -  ogy, the raven was once believed to have been  white but was transformed into a black bird by  Apollo for informing the god of the infidelity  of Coronis, a beautiful maiden loved by the  Ravana  raven   825

=== 페이지 843 ===
826   Introduction  The raven. Illustration from an 1884 edition of Edgar Allan Poe’s poem   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 844 ===
god. The bird was associated with Apollo as  god of prophecy.  In Norse mythology two ravens, Hugin and  Munin, brought news to Odin of each day’s hap -  penings. As a result Odin was sometimes called  God of Ravens. The ominous character of the  raven is cited in Shakespeare’s   Julius Caesar   (5.1);  Cassius tells how the ravens “Flay o’er our heads  and downward look on us / As we were sickly  prey,” reflecting the belief that the bird would  “smell death” and was therefore a dreaded visitor.  But in a Roman legend the raven is a symbol of  good. It alighted on the helmet of Valerius, a sol -  dier, when he was about to fight a Gallic warrior.  Valerius took this as a good sign and prayed to  the gods to aid him in battle. They did, sending  the raven to pluck out the eyes of the Gallic war -  rior. In Christian art, the raven symbolizes God’s  providence, an allusion to the ravens that fed Eli -  jah. In Arthurian legend, King Arthur still lives in  the guise of a raven, and therefore the birds are  never killed. In Eskimo mythology, the Great  Raven is the creator of animals and women. Poe’s  The Raven   is the best-known poem on the raven.  There are numerous motifs associated with the  raven in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See   also:   apollo;   arthur;   djokhrane;  hugin and munin; odin  Raymond Nonnato, St.   (counsel-protection)  (1204–1448)   In Christian legend, patron saint  of children, domestic animals, innocent per -  sons falsely accused, and nurses. Invoked dur -  ing childbirth and fever. Venerated in Spain.  Feast, 31 August.  St. Raymond was a member of the Order of  Mercy, or Mercedarians, who worked to free  captive Christians from the Moors.   Les Petits  Bollandistes   (vol. 10), a collection of saints’ lives,  gives the legend of St. Raymond speaking when  his lips were locked.  Raymond went to Algiers to redeem Chris -  tian captives but was captured by the Moors and  imprisoned. Though a captive he still preached  the Gospel, which upset the ruling pasha Setim,  who ordered him to be whipped, naked, at every  street corner. Then a red-hot iron padlock was  fastened through his lips. The key was kept by  the jailer, and the lock was opened only when  he was given food. Yet one day when the jailer  came in, he found Raymond reciting one of the  Psalms. The jailer, convinced he was a sorcerer,  kicked him and left without feeding him.  Eventually, Raymond made it back to Chris -  tian lands and was made a cardinal and general  of the Order of Mercy. Both Pope Gregory IX  and King James of Aragon attended his funeral.  St. Raymond is shown as a Mercedarian  with a white badge on his breast and a chain  and padlock on his lips. Sometimes he is shown  surrounded by Moors and captives.  Raymond   of   Pennaforte,   St .   (counsel  protection)   (13th century)   In Christian leg -  end, patron saint of canon lawyers, venerated  in Spain and Majorca. Feast, 23 January.  Raymond   was   born   of   a   noble   Spanish  family. He joined the Dominican Order and  through his preaching was partly responsible  for the expulsion of the Moors from Spain.  His miracles, which are numerous, fill some 16  pages of   Les Petits Bollandistes,   a collection of  saints’ lives. One legend, included in Leandre  Alberti’s   Life of St. Raymund,   tells how St. Ray -  mond sailed some 160 miles on his cloak.  King James was living in adultery with a lady  of the court. St. Raymond reprimanded him, but  the king ignored him. St. Raymond then said  he could no longer live in a court where sin was  tolerated. The king strictly forbade any shipper,  under pain of death, to convey St. Raymond  across the water. St. Raymond spread his cloak  on the water, jumped on it, held up on his staff  a corner of the cloak to make a sail, and sailed  all the way to Barcelona. On reaching shore  he drew his cloak up and threw it across his  shoulders—and it was dry. When the king heard  of the miracle, he abandoned his mistress and  became an ideal king. The same legend of using  a cloak as a sail is also told of St. Bernardino in  the 15th century, St. Isidore’s wife, and Elijah,  who in 2 Kings (2:8) took his mantle and, wrap -  Raymond of Pennaforte, St .   827

=== 페이지 845 ===
ping it together, “smote the waters, and they  were divided hither and thither, so that they two  went over Jordan as dry land.”  St. Raymond is shown in the Dominican  habit kneeling on his magic mantle.  Raziel   (secret of God)   In Jewish folklore,  angel entrusted with guarding or transmitting  the “mysteries” or “secrets” of God. Raziel  is credited with authorship of   The Book of the  Angel Raziel,   a medieval Jewish work popular  in eastern Europe, where a copy of the book  was believed to keep a house safe from fire.  The book says that the “secrets” contained in  it were given by the angel Raziel to Adam after  he was cast out of the Garden of Eden, then  passed on to Noah before he entered the ark,  and finally came into the possession of King  Solomon, who is credited in both Jewish and  Islamic folklore with being a great magician.  See also:   adam and eve; noah; solomon  Razin, Stenka   (d. 1671)   In Russian legend,  a   Cossack   leader.   Numerous   tales   grew   up  around his character. One, which influenced  the   Russian   composer   Alexander   Glazunov,  relates to Razin’s death. Stenka Razin was on  his magnificent boat with a captive Persian  princess when she told him a dream she had  had. She had seen her own death as well as the  destruction of Stenka Razin and his followers.  Fearful of what she said, Stenka Razin killed her,  Rebekah Gives Abraham’s Servant Water   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  828   Raziel

=== 페이지 846 ===
offered her as a sacrifice to the Volga River, and  went out to fight the czar’s troops, who defeat -  ed him. He was executed in 1671. Glazunov’s  symphonic poem   Stenka Razin,   which uses as  a main theme the traditional song of the Volga  boatman; Shostakovich’s   The Execution of Stepan  Razin,   for bass, chorus, and orchestra, based on  a poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko; and a group  sculpture   Stepan Razin and His Troops   by Sergei  Konenkov, all portray the hero.  Rebekah   (ensnarer)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,   a  daughter of Bethuel and the wife of Isaac; moth -  er of Jacob and Esau. The story of her marriage  is told in Genesis (chap. 24). When Abraham,  Isaac’s father, was old, he wanted to be sure that  his son was married. He sent his trusted servant  Eliezar back to Chaldea, his native land, to  choose a wife for Isaac. Near the city of Nahor  the servant prayed for Yahweh’s guidance. He  asked that when he should stop by the public  well with his animals, whichever maiden draw -  ing water there who first offered to draw water  for him would be his choice for Isaac’s wife. The  prayer was answered when Rebekah offered the  water. A scene frequently painted is Rebekah at  the well, such as the painting by Murillo.  See   also:   abraham; esau; isaac; jacob;  yahweh  Regin   In   Norse   mythology,   youngest   son  of Hreidmer and brother of Fafnir and Otter.  Exiled by his brother Fafnir over possession  of the Nibelung gold, Regin became the great  teacher of all craft to mankind. He educated  Sigurd, made him promise to avenge the wrongs  done him by Fafnir, and forged Sigurd’s magic  sword. Regin appears in the   Volsunga Saga.  See also:   fafnir; nibelungs; sigurd  Regulus,   St.   (third   century)   In   Christian  legend, first bishop of Senlis, France, as well as  its patron saint. Feast, 30 March.  One day St. Regulus encountered a man  possessed by a devil. “If you cast me out of the  man,” said the devil, “let me go into the nearby  ass.” The saint agreed, but the ass made the  sign of the cross with its forefoot, and the devil  fled. Another legend tells how the saint, when  preaching, told some frogs to stop croaking.  They complied. One chapel dedicated to the  saint contains images of frogs.  Reliques   In 1765 Bishop Thomas Percy pub -  lished his   Reliques of Ancient English Poetry,   a col -  lection of English and Scottish ballads. These  old songs were filled with action and pathos as  well as energy and rhythm. His collection came  shortly after the work of James MacPherson,  who had published his   Poems of Ossian   in 1760–  1763,   likewise   filled   with   strong   sentiment.  Unfortunately,   MacPherson’s   publication   of  verse by the third-century Celtic bard, Ossian,  was a hoax; he himself wrote the poetic songs.  Still, these two publications had an impact on  European poets and scholars that would cause  such individuals as Johann Gottfried Herder  to collect folksongs and ballads and publish  them. European Romanticism would take this  inspiration even further, sending the likes of the  Grimm Brothers in search of old and traditional  fairy tale, myths, and legends.  See also:   grimm brothers; ossian  Rémy, St.   (430–533)   In Christian legend,  bishop of Rheims, France; converted and bap -  tized Clovis, the king of the Franks, in 496.  Feast, 1 October.  Rémy was made bishop of Rheims when  he was 22 because of his brilliance and great  learning. After the conversion of Clovis the  king helped him in his great project of bringing  Christianity to the Franks.  There   are   numerous   legends   connected  with his life recorded in Hinomar’s   Life of St.  Remi,   written in the ninth century. One sec -  tion tells how St. Rémy stopped a fire from  destroying Rheims by making the sign of the  cross before it. The fire kept moving back as  the saint walked toward it until it reached the  city gates “when it rolled itself into a ball” and  disappeared in the fields. Another legend tells  Rémy, St.   829

=== 페이지 847 ===
that when St. Rémy was an old man he had a  dream that there would be years of plenty fol -  lowed by years of dearth. So he stored corn in  Celtum against the years of famine. The vil -  lagers, supposing he was going to market the  corn to their loss, set fire to his granaries. As  the fire was raging, the old saint appeared and  said, “Be sure of this, that God will not forget  to punish those who have done this mischief.”  Immediately the persons who had set the fire  became hunchbacks. Hincmar, who records  the legend, says, “I have often seen the peas -  ants of Celtum, some of whom have certainly  crooked backs.”  The most famous painting of the saint is  by the Master of St. Giles and is called   The  Baptism of Clovis.  Renpet   (Renenutet,   Rannut,   Remute,  Ernuted)   (rising   goddess?)   In   Egyptian  mythology, goddess of the year’s duration. She  was particularly associated with springtime and  youth. In Egyptian art she was portrayed as a  woman wearing above her head a long palm  shoot curved at the end, which was the ideo -  gram of her name.  Reshpu   (Resheph, Reshef, Reshep, Reshiph-  Mical) (fiery bolt?)   In Near Eastern mythol -  ogy (Syrian), god of lightning and the thunder -  bolt, the “Great God, Lord of Eternity, Prince  of Everlastingness, Lord of Twofold Strength  among the Company of the Gods.” Reshpu was  worshipped at Reshp in Egypt, where he was  depicted as a warrior with a shield and spear in  his left hand and a club in his right hand.  Revati   In Hindu mythology, wife of the hero  Balarama, brother of Krishna (an incarnation of  the god Vishnu). Revati was given to Balarama  by   the   god   Brahma,   but   the   hero   thought  Revati was too tall for him and “shortened her  with the end of a ploughshare, and she became  his wife.” The couple had two sons.  See   also:   balarama;   brahma;   krishna;  vishnu  revenant   A term used for a deceased person  who is believed to reappear after death. The  belief is based on conceptions of life and death,  particularly life after death. In most cases a rev -  enant returns to complete some unfinished duty  or to fetch personal belongings that he or she  might need in the afterlife. They can be divided  into two groups, the innocent and the guilty.  The former would include mothers who died in  childbirth or those who were unhappy at the time  of burial or in the final place of rest. Among the  latter, the guilty, there might be those who are  punished and made to return in order to rectify  improper behavior during life. One legend tells  of a man named Uncle James who was killed in a  car accident. When his family came home from  the funeral, they all sat in the parlor and grieved  for their loss. Because the house had two front  doors, as is common in many rural neighbor -  hoods, they became aware of someone walking  up the steps of the house and entering the second  door, the one always used by the deceased to go  into his own bedroom. There was noise around  the dresser in the other room, and then the fam -  ily heard footsteps once again, going out of the  house and down the steps. When they went into  the bedroom to see what had transpired, they  noticed that a comb, brush, and razor were miss -  ing. There was no other explanation than that  the deceased had returned from the dead to fetch  his own personal items.  Revere, Paul   (1735–1818)   In American his -  tory and folklore, patriot, craftsman, and politi -  cal cartoonist. A skilled silversmith, Revere also  did portraits and produced false teeth. When  the conflict between the colonies and Great  Britain broke out, Revere issued crude cartoons  attacking the British. He is noted in American  legend   for   his   famous   midnight   ride   from  Boston to Lexington on 18–19 April 1775 to  warn the colonists of the Redcoats’ approach.  Longfellow’s   literary   ballad   “The   Midnight  Ride of Paul Revere,” included in his collection  Tales of a Wayside Inn,   tells how Revere waited  for a signal in the Old North Church tower  830   Renpet

=== 페이지 848 ===
before he began his famous ride. Longfellow’s  ballad, however, is more legend than fact. Paul  Revere did not make the whole ride. A young  Dr. Prescott carried the news to Concord, and  Revere went to Lexington.  revival   In   1871   Sir   Edward   Burnett   Tylor  applied the theory of evolution to human history,  including its cultural manifestations. He posited  that ideas and practices many thought had faded  from the scene suddenly burst “forth again with  a vigour often as marvellous as it is unhealthy.”  He cited the many examples of spiritualism in  Britain at that time, with its mediums, seances,  and communication with the spirit world.  See also:   continuity  Reynard the Fox   (hard counsel)   In medieval  folklore, a clever fox who outwits other animals.  His tale was a popular subject in chapbooks  and begins with all of the animals complaining  about Reynard, who has robbed them. Noble,  the lion king, decides to send Bruin, the bear, to  arrest Reynard. Bruin, however, is outwitted, as  is Tybert, the cat. Finally, Grymbart, the badger,  brings in Reynard for trial. He is found guilty  and sentenced to be hanged. The clever fox,  however, convinces Noble, who is judge, that  he has hidden treasure. In hope of obtaining the  treasure, Noble unties Reynard, who escapes  and continues stealing and raping his neighbors.  Arrested for the second time on charges of rap -  ing the wife of Isengrin, the wolf, Reynard not  only kills Isengrin in a duel, but is made second  in command by Noble. William Caxton trans -  lated a Flemish version of the tale into English  in 1481. Goethe’s long narrative poem   Reynard  the Fox   and Stravinsky’s   Renard the Fox,   for solo -  ists and orchestra, also treat the tale.  See also:   aesopic fables; bestiary; chapbook  Rhadamanthus   (he   who   divines   with   a  wand)   In Greek mythology, son of Zeus and  Europa; brother of Minos and Sarpedon; mar -  ried to Alcmene; father of Erythus and Gortys.  He was born on Crete and ruled over the  Cyclades and later was made one of the three  judges of the underworld along with Minos and  Sarpedon (or Aeacus). He is cited in Homer’s  Iliad   (book 4), Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6), and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 9).  See also:   aeneid, the ;   iliad, the ; minos;  sarpendon; zeus  Rhampsinitus,   Treasure   of   Ancient  Egyptian literary folktale told by Herodotus  in his   History   (book 2). Herodotus claimed that  it had been told to him by Egyptian priests. In  the tale a rogue tricks everyone—even the pha -  raoh, who exclaims at the end: “The Egyptians  excelled all the rest of the world in wisdom, and  this man excelled all other Egyptians.”  Rhesus   (breaker)   In Greek mythology, king  of Thrace, ally of Priam; son of Strymon (or  Eioneus) and Calliope (or Euterpe); married  Arganthoe. His horses protected Troy. Homer’s  Iliad   (book   10)   tells   how   Rhesus   was   killed  by Odysseus and Diomedes in a night raid in  which his magnificent white horses were taken.  Euripides’   Rhesus,   Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1), and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13) also tell the tale.  See also:   aeneid, the ; diomedes; odysseus;  priam Reynard the Fox  Rhesus   831

=== 페이지 849 ===
Rhoecus   In Greek mythology, a handsome  young man who propped up a fallen oak tree,  thus saving the life of the nymph or dryad  who lived in the tree. As a reward, Rhoecus  asked that the nymph love him. She said she  would send a messenger to tell him when to  meet her. When the bee messenger arrived,  Rhoecus had already forgotten the incident and  waved the bee away. In punishment, the nymph  blinded Rhoecus. Rhoecus is also the name of  a centaur killed by Dionysus at the wedding  of Pirithous and Hippodameia, according to  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12), as well as the  name of a Titan killed by Dionysus in the war  between the gods and the Titans.  See also:   dionysus; dryads; nymphs; ovid;  titans  Ribhus   (clever, skilful)   In Hindu mythology,  mortals who were raised to divine status after  they fashioned the storm god Indra’s chariot  and horses. They live in the solar atmosphere  and are supporters of the sky.  See also:   vishnu  rice   A cereal grain. In some parts of Java,  just before rice is to bloom, farmers bring  their wives into the rice field and have sexual  intercourse to ensure a successful crop. The  Kayans of central Borneo precede the sowing  of rice by an elaborate dance, in which dancers  wear masks with gogglelike eyes, large teeth  and ears, and beards made of goat hair, dress -  ing themselves in banana leaves to look like  walking plants. With a hook they ceremoni -  ally catch the soul of the rice, which otherwise  might wander away, causing crop failure. The  custom of throwing rice at weddings comes  from India. For Hindus rice was a symbol of  fecundity. The bride and the bridegroom each  throw three handfuls at each other.  Richard the Lion-Hearted   (1157–1199)   In  English history and legend, king of England,  also called Richard Coeur de Lion, who took  part in the Crusades, though he never reached  Jerusalem. He became a prisoner of the emperor  Henry VI in 1193 but was ransomed by his  English   subjects.   He   died   while   besieging   a  castle. His character appealed to Walter Scott,  who at the tournament in   Ivanhoe   introduced  him disguised as the Black Knight. Scott’s   The  Talisman   portrays Richard crusading in the Holy  Land, both the friend and the enemy of Saladin.  See also:   saladin  Rig-Veda   (Rg-Veda)   (Veda   of   praise)   In  Hinduism, the most ancient and sacred part  of the Vedas (knowledge), consisting of more  than 1,000 hymns to the gods and various  natural phenomena, composed between 1400  and 1000   b.c.e.  The Rig-Veda is divided into 10   mandalas  (circles), or books, consisting of hymns by vari -  ous   rishis   (sages). In some versions the name  of the   rishi   who is reputed to be the teller or  reciter is prefixed to each hymn because the  hymns are believed to have been “breathed  out” by the god Brahma. They were transmit -  ted orally from generation to generation until,  according to tradition, they were collected by  Krishna Dwaipayna (the arranger).  F. Max Müller, the 19th-century German  scholar who was the first to produce a critical  Sanskrit text of the Vedas with the traditional  commentary and who edited the   Sacred Books of  the East,   wrote of the Rig-Veda: “What can be  more tedious than the Veda, and yet what can  be more interesting, if once we know that it is  the first word spoken by the Aryan man? .   .   .  The Veda has a two-fold interest: it belongs to  the history of the world and to the history of  India.   .   .   . As long as man continues to take an  interest in the history of his race, and as long  as we collect in libraries and museums the rel -  ics of a former age, the first place in that long  row of books which contains the records of the  Aryan branch of mankind, will belong forever  to the   Rig-Veda. ”  The greatest impact of the Rig-Veda on  Western music is contained in   Choral Hymns   by  Gustav Holst. Early in his career he had written  832   Rhoecus

=== 페이지 850 ===
for baritone an   Invocation to Dawn,   based on his  own translation of some of the Rig-Veda. Later  Holst set four groups of hymns to various texts  he had translated. In the first group, for mixed  voices and orchestra, are   Battle Hymn,   Hymn  to the Unknown God,   and   Funeral Hymn.   The  second group, for female voices and orchestra,  contains   To Varuna,   To Agni,   and   Funeral Chant.  The third group, for female voices and harp,  includes   Hymn to Dawn,   Hymn to the Waters,  Hymn to Vena,   and   Hymn to the Travellers.   The  last group is   Hymn to Agni,   Hymn to Soma,  Hymn to Manas,   and   Hymn to Indra.   The Amer -  ican composer Bertram Shapleigh composed  Vedic Hymn   on a text from the Rig-Veda.  See also:   brahma; vedas  Rimmon   (Ramman, Rammanu) (the thun-  derer)   In Near Eastern mythology (Babylo-  nian-Assyrian),   the   storm   god,   often   called  Adad or Hadad.  In the biblical book 2 Kings (5:1–18), Naa -  man, the commander of the Syrian army, wor -  shipped Rimmon, but when he was cured of his  leprosy by the prophet Elisha, he said he would  worship   the   Hebrew   god,   Yahweh,   instead.  In the Babylonian version of the flood myth,  before the Great Flood “the whirlwind of Adad  mounted up into the heavens, and all light was  turned into darkness.” Rimmon was portrayed  holding lightning rods in his left hand and an  ax in his right. His sacred animal was the bull;  his sacred tree, the cypress. His wife was Shala,  which may simply mean “woman.”  Rimmon was also called Martu (the Amor -  ite) and Kur-Ga (great mountain) in Canaan.  He was called Hadad by the Syrians and Tes -  hub by the Hittites.  See also:   elisha; yahweh  Rinaldo   In the Charlemagne cycle of leg -  ends, son of Aymon, Charlemagne’s nephew  and one of his 12 paladins. He is also the  owner of the horse Bayard. Rinaldo is the rival  of his cousin Orlando for the love of Angelica  in Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso.   He also appears  in Tasso’s   Jerusalem Delivered.   Rinaldo is also  called Renault.  See also:   aymon, the four sons of; angel -  ica; bayard; charlemagne; paladins, the  twelve; roland  Rinda   (crust of the earth?)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, a goddess, a mistress of Odin, and mother  of Vali. Odin used various disguises and magic  (seid) to sleep with Rinda. Rinda is also Baldur,  the avenger.  See also:   baldur; odin  Ring des Nibelungen, Der   (The Ring of the  Nibelung)   A staged festival-play to be per -  formed over a three-day period and a preliminary  evening; words and music by Richard Wagner.  First complete performance, Bayreuth, 13–17  August 1876. The work consists of   Das Rheingold,  Die Walküre,   Siegfried,   and   Götterdämmerung.  Wagner wrote the text for his music dramas  in reverse order. In 1848 he wrote   Siegfrieds  Tod,   which dealt with the death of Siegfried.  Realizing that he had to explain more, he wrote  Der Junge Siegfried   (The Young Siegfried). He  then felt he needed even more text.   Siegfrieds  Tod   became the last work;   Götterdämmerung,  and   Das Rheingold,   the first part, was written  last. The texts for all of the dramas were pub -  lished in 1854. The music, however, was writ -  ten in the order of presentation.  Wagner used the names found in the   Nibe -  lungenlied,   the medieval German epic, but he  used the related plot of the   Volsunga Saga   as  the basis for his work. He changed characters  and text to suit his artistic purposes, and thus  created a “mythology” of his own.  The first drama,   Das Rheingold   (The Rhi -  negold), had its premiere 22 September 1869  at Munich. Three Rhine maidens guard the  precious Rhinegold, which if stolen and forged  into a ring will give its owner great powers. But  anyone who possesses the gold must renounce  love. Alberich, the dwarf, unable to win the  Rhine maidens’ love, renounces love and carries  off the gold to Nebelheim, the land of fog.  Ring des Nibelungen, Der   833

=== 페이지 851 ===
As a reward for building Walhalla, Wotan,  king of the gods, has promised to give Freia,  goddess of youth and love, to the giants Fafner  and Fasolt. The other gods refuse to permit  this, and Wotan has nothing to offer the giants  instead. Loge, the fire god, is called and suggests  as a substitute the Rhinegold, of which Alberich  is the possessor. The two giants agree.  Wotan and Loge set off to steal it. Wotan and  Loge enter Nebelheim. Alberich shows them the  treasure, as well as a helmet by which the wearer  is able to assume any form (Tarnkappe). Loge  persuades Alberich to transform himself into a  toad. When Alberich does this, he is overpow -  ered, and Wotan takes the treasure. However,  Alberich puts a curse on the ring so that it will  bring disaster on all who possess it.  The gold and the fatal ring are given to  the giants, who then release Freia to the gods.  They joyfully enter their palace over a rainbow  bridge, but during the last scene the giant  Fasolt is killed by Fafner. The curse of Alberich  begins to work.  Wotan, knowing of the death of Fasolt, fears  that the curse of the ring will fall on the gods.  To defend Walhalla against this and the attacks  of the Nibelungs, he fathers with Erda, the earth  goddess, nine daughters (the Walkyries, chief of  whom is Brünnhilde). One of their functions is  to ride through the air bearing to Walhalla the  bodies of dead heroes, who will be revived and  will aid the gods in the coming battle.  To break the curse, it is also necessary to  restore the ring to the Rhine maidens, but this  task has to be done by a human. Wotan, in the  guise of Walse, begets with a woman two Wal -  sung twins, Siegmund and Sieglinde. Wotan  hopes Siegmund will be the hero to slay Fafner  and return the ring to its rightful owners. To  prepare Siegmund for the task, Wotan sets  various hardships for him. Sieglinde is made to  marry the robber Hunding.  The second music drama is   Die Walküre  (The Valkyries), first performed 26 June 1870  in   Munich.   Siegmund   staggers   storm-driven  into Hunding’s empty hut. Sieglinde enters and  finds the stranger—they are unknown to one  another, though brother and sister—and they  love each other at first sight. Hunding enters,  and, enraged at what he finds, he challenges  Siegmund to a fight the next day. Sieglinde gives  Hunding a sleeping potion, and after a passion -  ate duet the two lovers flee into the night.  Fricka, Wotan’s wife, also the protector of  the marriage vow, demands that Siegmund, who  has sinned by sleeping with his sister, shall die  in the coming combat with Hunding. Wotan  reluctantly yields and commissions Brünnhilde  to bring about Siegmund’s defeat. Brünnhilde,  however, sympathizes with the lovers and pro -  tects Siegmund in the battle. But she is foiled  when Wotan enters and allows Hunding to kill  Siegmund. Wotan thereupon slays Hunding.  Brünnhilde comforts the bereaved Sieglinde,  but because of her disobedience Brünnhilde is  deprived of her divinity and is put to sleep by  Wotan on a fire-encompassed rock. She can be  awakened only by a fearless hero, who can then  claim her as his bride.  The third music drama,   Siegfried,   had its  premiere 16 August 1876. Siegfried is the son  of Sieglinde, born after the death of his father,  Siegmund. Mime, Alberich’s deformed brother, Alberich  834   Ring des Nibelungen, Der

=== 페이지 852 ===
has reared Siegfried in his home in the for -  est. He hopes that someday Siegfried will slay  Fafner, who changed himself into a dragon to  guard the treasure. The act ends with Siegfried  successfully forging a magic sword.  Siegfried slays Fafner. Mime offers a sleep -  ing potion to Siegfried, who discovers his evil  purpose and kills him. Having by chance put  his finger, stained with the dragon’s blood, to  his lips, Siegfried is enabled to understand a  bird as it sings. The bird tells of the sleeping  Brünnhilde, and Siegfried goes to find her.  On his way Siegfried meets Wotan, who  opposes him with his spear, but the spear is  shattered   by   Siegfried’s   magic   sword.   Sieg -  fried reaches the fire rock, rushes through the  flames, and claims Brünnhilde as his bride.  The fourth and last music drama,   Götter -  dämmerung   (The Twilight of the Gods), had  its premiere 17 August 1876 at Bayreuth. The  opera opens in the Hall of the Gibichungs on  the Rhine, where Siegfried has arrived, having  left Brünnhilde behind. Here he is drugged  with a magic love potion by Gutrune, who  wants to marry him. The drug causes him to  forget his love for Brünnhilde, and he falls  in   love   with   Gutrune.   Gunther,   Gutrune’s  brother, plots to marry Brünnhilde but knows  he lacks the power to overcome her. Siegfried  goes   with   Gunther   to   capture   Brünnhilde.  Disguised   as   Gunther,   Siegfried   overcomes  Brünnhilde and hands her over to the Gibi -  chungs. Siegfried, still under the spell of the  drug, becomes Gutrune’s lover, and Gunther  becomes the lover of Brünnhilde.  Hagen   stabs   Siegfried,   who   in   his   last  moments   recovers   his   memory.   Brünnhilde  finds Siegfried dead, and she realizes that he  was under a spell. She still loves him. Logs are  heaped up for a pyre, and the dead hero is placed  on it, but not before Brünnhilde has taken the  fatal ring from his finger and cast it into the  Rhine. The Rhine maidens appear singing. The  sky darkens; the flames rise. Brünnhilde on her  horse leaps into the flames. The Rhine rises, and  Walhalla is seen to burst into flames.  In 1848 Wagner wrote a “sketch” for the  four dramas. His early sketch is important in  shedding light on those elements that he kept  in the telling of the myth and those he left out  of the final version of the dramas. Numerous  books have been written to explain Wagner’s  Ring.   Among the best known is George Bernard  Shaw’s   The Perfect Wagnerite: A Commentary of  the Niblung’s Ring.   Arthur Rackham illustrated  the English translation of the   Ring   by Margaret  Armour, which was published in 1910.  See   also:   brynhild;   erda;   fafnir;   frey;   frigga;  nibelungen;   nibelungenlied ; tarnkappe; val -  halla; valkyries;   volsunga saga ; wotan  Ripheus   In Greek and Roman mythology, a  Trojan who joined Aeneas the night Troy was  destroyed; he was slain after killing many Greeks.  Ripheus is cited for his love of justice and equity  in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 2) and Dante’s   Divine  Comedy   (Paradise, canto 20). Ripheus is also the  name of one of the centaurs killed by Theseus at  the marriage of Pirithous and Hippodameia, as  told in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 12).  See   also:   aeneid, the ; centaurs; ovid;  theseus  Rip Van Winkle   In American literary folk -  lore,   creation   of   Washington   Irving   in   The  Sketch Book.   Rip, who lives with a shrewish  wife, one day goes hunting in the Catskills with  his dog. There he meets dwarflike beings and  drinks some liquor they give him. He falls asleep  and awakens 20 years later, an old man, who dis -  covers that his wife has died and the American  Revolution has taken place. He goes to live with  his grown daughter and makes new friends.  Rival Schools of Thought   Jewish moral  tale found in the Talmud. For more than two  years two rival schools in the study of the  Talmud, that of Shammai and that of Hillel,  debated of whether it would have been better  if men had not been created. The followers of  Shammai said it would have been better if God  had not created man, but the school of Hillel  Rival Schools of Thought   835

=== 페이지 853 ===
said it was good that man had been created.  Finally, they concluded their arguments by a  compromise: It would have been far better if  man had not been created, but since he has  been placed on earth, it is his duty to do the  best he can to live a righteous life.  See also:   talmud  River of Fire   The river in Russian folklore  to   which   Petrushka   is   carried   in   a   pitcher  of milk by the grandmother frog Babushka-  Lyagushka-Skakushka. Petrushka then learns  where   I-Know-Not-Where   is   and   what   I-  Know-Not-What is.  See also:   baba-yaga; petrushka  Robert, St.   (fame-bright)   (11th century)   In  Christian legend, abbot, founder of the mon -  astery of Chaise-Dieu in the Auvergne. Feast,  17 April.  As a child, Robert would nurse only at the  breasts of good women, not “irreligious ones.”  When Robert became an abbot, the cook one  day informed him that there was not enough  food. As Robert was celebrating Mass, an eagle  flew into the church and dropped an enormous  fish, large enough to feed all the monks. When  Robert died his soul ascended to heaven as a  globe of fire.  Robigo   (mildew, rust)   In Roman mythology,  goddess invoked to preserve grain from mildew.  Her festival, Robigalia, was celebrated on 25  April with offerings of incense and entrails of a  sheep and a dog. Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 4) describes  the feast.  See also:   ovid  robin   Any of several small birds having reddish  breasts. A medieval Christian legend accounts  for the red breast. The night of Jesus’ birth Mary  and Joseph sought shelter in a cave inhabited by  a small brown bird. When the angels came to  praise the baby Jesus the little brown bird was  awakened by the light glowing from the angels  and by the heavenly singing. Moved by the  beautiful song, the bird joined in and became the  first nightingale. Outside the cave another small  bird saw shepherds leave their campfire and  approach the cave. The bird flew to the fire and  fanned it with its wing. The flames soared high  into the air and colored the breast of the bird  with yellow-red light. The bird became the first  robin. In the legend the nightingale is identified  as male and the robin as female. Oscar Wilde in  The Nightingale and the Rose   identifies the bird  as female. In another Christian legend, when  Jesus was on his way to Calvary, a robin plucked  a thorn from his crown, and the blood that came  from the wound dyed the breast of the bird red.  See also:   nightingale  Robin Hood   (12th or 13th century)   In medi -  eval British legend, outlaw who stole from the rich  to give to the poor. He was believed to be Robert  Fitzooth, the outlawed earl of Huntingdon. He  836   River of Fire  Robin Hood

=== 페이지 854 ===
had 100 “tall men,” all good archers. He took  spoils, but according to an account of 1386, “he  suffered no women to be oppressed, violated or  otherwise molested; poor men’s goods he spared,  abundantly relieving them with that which by  theft he got from abbeys and houses of rich  men.” Robin Hood’s companions in Sherwood  Forest and Barnesdale, Yorkshire, were Little  John, Friar Tuck, Will Scarlet, Allan-a- Dale,  George-a-Greene, and Maid Marion. According  to one legend Robin Hood was treacherously  slain by a nun at the command of his kins -  man the prior of Kirkless, in Nottinghamshire.  Another tradition says he died with Little John  at the Battle of Evesham. Various operas on the  subject of Robin Hood have been written, the  most famous being Reginald De Koven’s oper -  etta   Robin Hood   (1890). Hollywood made several  Robin Hood movies, one of the earliest starring  Douglas Fairbanks in 1922.  See also:   allan-a-dale; maid marion  Roch, St.   (Roque) (repose)   (14th century)   In  Christian legend, patron saint of prisoners, the  sick in hospitals, and victims of plague. Feast,  6 August.  Roch was the son of the governor of Mont -  pellier, France, who died when the saint was  20 years old. The lad then went to Rome,  where a plague was raging, and took care of  the sick. He went from city to city in Italy  helping the plaguestricken. Then, according to  the account in Jameson’s   Sacred and Legendary  Art,   “One night, being in a hospital, he sank  down to the ground, overpowered by fatigue  and went to sleep. On waking, he found him -  self plague-stricken; a fever burned in every  limb, and a horrible ulcer had broken out in  his left thigh.” Fearful that he would disturb  the other patients, Roch left for the woods,  where he intended to die. However, his dog  and an angel took care of him by tending his  sore and bringing him bread every day. When  St. Roch Distributing Alms   (Etching by Guido Reni after a painting by Annibale Carracci)  Roch, St.   837

=== 페이지 855 ===
he arrived home at Montpellier, he was so  changed and wasted by his illness that no one  recognized him. He was arrested as a spy, and  his uncle, who was the judge, had him locked  in prison. After five years the jailor entered his  cell one day and was dazzled by a bright light.  He found Roch dead and near him a paper with  these words: “All those who are stricken by the  plague, and who pray through the merits and  intercession of Roch, the servant of God, shall  be healed.” Roch was then buried with honor  at   Montpellier,   but   Italian   merchants   stole  his remains (in the Middle Ages it was quite  common for saints’ bodies or body parts to be  removed or stolen from one shrine and placed  in another) and brought them to Venice, where  they lie in the Church of San Rocco.  St. Roch’s attributes are his dog, who daily  brought him bread while he was dying of the  pestilence, and the physical markings of the  plague. He often appears in paintings, as in  Parmigianino’s work, exposing his groin with  its buboes (lymphatic swellings) or pointing to  a purpuric spot on his leg. A statue of the saint  using this iconography was carried in Constance  in 1414 when a plague had broken out, and  legend has it that the invocation of St. Roch  stilled the plague. A more sedate episode from  the saint’s life was chosen by Julius Schnoor von  Carolsfeld in his   St. Roch Distributing Alms.   The  painting, done in sharp outline with clear colors,  attempts to capture for the 19th century the reli -  gious art of early Italian and German masters.  Roderick, Don   (eighth century)   In medieval  Spanish history and legend, last Visigoth king of  Spain, appearing in many Spanish ballads. He  was defeated by the Moors in July 711, disap -  pearing on the battlefield. He either was killed,  drowned, or escaped. Some legends say he is  alive and will return to Spain in its time of need.  See also:   ballad; barbarossa  Rodomont   In the Charlemagne cycle of  legends, a Saracen hero who was killed by  Ruggiero when he accused Ruggiero of turn -  ing traitor by becoming a Christian. Rodomont  appears   in   Ariosto’s   Orlando   Furioso   and   is  mentioned by Cervantes in   Don Quixote : “Who  more brave than Rodomont?”  See also:   charlemagne; roland; ruggiero  Rokola   In Melanesian mythology, Fijian god  of carpenters who taught the people how to  navigate.  Roland   (fame, land)   In the Charlemagne  cycle of legends, one of the 12 paladins, called  Orlando in Italian legends.  Roland was the count of Mans and knight  of Blaives. He was the son of Duke Milo of  Aigland and Bertha, the sister of Charlemagne.  Medieval legend describes him as eight feet tall,  brave, loyal, and somewhat simple-minded.  Roland  838   Roderick, Don

=== 페이지 856 ===
The most famous work about Roland is the  11th-century French poem   Chanson de Roland  (Song of Roland). When Charlemagne had  been in Spain for six years, he sent Ganelon on  an embassy to Marsilius, the Saracen king of  Saragossa. Out of jealousy Ganelon told Mar -  silius the route that the Christian army was to  take on its way home. Marsilius arrived at Ron -  cesvalles just as Roland was going through the  pass with a rearguard of 20,000 men. Roland  fought until 100,000 Saracens were slain and  only 50 of his own men were left alive. But  another Saracen army of some 50,000 now  poured in from the mountains. Roland blew  his ivory horn, Olivant, which he had won from  the giant Jutmundus. The third blast cracked  the horn in two, birds fell dead from the sky,  and   the   Saracen   army   fled,   panic-stricken.  Charlemagne heard the horn and rushed to the  rescue, but it was too late. Roland had died of  wounds from the battle.  Roland’s sword, Durindana, or Durandal,  had once belonged to the Trojan hero Hec -  tor. It had on its hilt a thread from the Virgin  Mary’s cloak, a tooth of St. Peter, one of St.  Denis’s hairs, and a drop of St. Basil’s blood.  To prevent Durindana from falling into the  hands of the Saracens, Roland hurled it into a  poisoned stream.  Roland appears as Orlando in Italian works  such as Boiardo’s   Orlando Innamorato   (Orlando  in Love) and Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso.   Ariosto’s  poem tells how Orlando goes mad when he  is rejected by Angelica, daughter of the king  of Cathay. She runs away with a Moor named  Medoro. Orlando’s wits are then deposited on  the moon. Astolpho goes in search of them, using  Elijah’s chariot. St. John, who lives on the moon,  gives Astolpho an urn containing Orlando’s wits.  On reaching earth again, Astolpho holds the urn  to Orlando’s nose, and he is cured.  See also:   angelica; astolpho; basil, st.;  chanson de geste; charlemagne; denis, st.;  elijah; ganelon; hector; john the evange -  list, st.; paladins, the twelve; peter, st.;  virgin mary  Roma   (strength?   river?)   Capital   of   the  Roman Empire, founded, according to Roman  mythology, by Romulus on 21 April 753   b.c.e.  The city was built on seven hills: Palatium,  Cermalus, Velia, Oppius, Cispius, Fagutal, and  Sucusa. Roma or Dea Roma, the goddess of the  city, was portrayed with a crown, sometimes  in the form of Minerva or as an Amazon. On  Roman coins she appears with a winged hel -  met. The emperor Hadrian erected a temple  in honor of Roma and Venus as ancestresses  of the Roman people. Bizet’s symphonic suite  Roma   and Respighi’s three tone poems   The  Pines of Rome, The Fountains of Rome,   and   Roman  Festivals   try to capture the city in music.  See also:   amazons; dea roma; minerva;  romulus and remus; venus  Romanus, St.   (seventh century)   In Christ-  ian   legend,   archbishop   of   Rouen,   France;  patron   saint   of   merchants.   Invoked   against  drowning, madness, poison, and demonic pos -  session. Feast, 23 October.  Romanus is best known in medieval leg -  end for his destruction of the dragon Gargo -  nille, which was eating the Christians in the  area. His only helper in capturing the dragon  was a murderer. After making the sign of the  cross, Romanus walked into the dragon’s den  and threw a net over its head. The murderer  then dragged the monster through the town  to a large bonfire, where it was burned alive.  In reward, the murderer was set free. From  that day on it was a custom of the chapter of  Rouen to pardon a criminal condemned to  death. The custom lasted until the French  Revolution. The life of St. Romanus is found  on the stained-glass windows of the cathedral  of Rouen.  See also:   dragon  Romulus and Remus   (dweller in Rome?  and oar?)   In Roman mythology, twin sons  of Mars and Rhea Silvia, who was the daugh -  ter of Numitor (Numa), king of Alba Longa.  Numitor’s brother Amulius deposed Numitor  Romulus and Remus   839

=== 페이지 857 ===
and forced Rhea Silvia to become a vestal vir -  gin. When the twins Romulus and Remus were  born, Amulius had Rhea Silvia placed in prison  and the twins cast into the Tiber. The boys  were discovered and rescued by Faustulus, a  shepherd, who found a she-wolf to nurse them.  When the boys grew up, they restored their  grandfather Numitor to his rightful throne. The  two then established a new city on the Palatine  Hill, but in an argument about the exact site  Romulus killed Remus and later became king.  To populate his new city Romulus took fugi -  tives for citizens and helped find them wives by  encouraging them to rape the Sabine women.  He ruled Rome for about 40 years. Romulus  then mysteriously vanished in a whirlwind on  the Campus Martius and was later worshipped  by the Romans as Quirinus (the lance), a Sabine  god, on the Quirinal Hill. His feast, Quirinalia,  was celebrated on 13 March, the calends. The  tale of Romulus and Remus is told or cited  in Plutarch’s   Life of Romulus,   Livy’s   History of  Rome,   Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 2) and   Metamorphoses  (book 14), and Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6). Livy’s  narrative was used as the basis for Macaulay’s  Lays of Ancient Rome.   Machiavelli’s   The Prince  singles out Romulus as a hero who helped raise  his people out of chaos. The best-known artis -  tic representation of Romulus and Remus is the  bronze she-wolf nursing the two babies, which  is now in the Capitoline Museum in Rome.  The statue of the she-wolf outside the Palazzo  Pubblico   at   Siena,   by   Giovanni   di   Turnio  (1459), is that city’s arms. Rubens also painted  the she-wolf and the twins.  See also:   aeneid, the ; mars; ovid  rooster   If one looks up at the steeples of  churches and cathedrals in Europe, the most  common figure at the apex is that of a rooster.  It was commonly believed in the past that the  devil could carry out his evil work only under  cover of darkness and had to retreat to his own  realm at the first light of day. Roosters are thus  charged with spotting the first light of the sun  and crowing loudly to let the devil know that  his time has expired while at the same time let -  ting the people know that it is safe to venture  out into the day.  See also:   cock; devil  Roraima, Mount   In Brazilian folklore, ma-  gic mountain guarded by demons in Roraima,  Brazil. One traveler, Boddham-Whetham, in  his   Roraima and British Guiana   (1879), tells  how he and his party traveled up the mountain.  They   were   met   by   an   “unpleasant-looking  Indian,” who told them not to go any farther  because the demon spirit that possessed the  Indian had so ordered it. The mountain, he  said, was guarded by an enormous serpentlike  creature that could entwine 100 people in its  folds. The Indians believed the mountain to be  inhabited by white jaguars, white eagles, and  didis (half-man, halfmonkey creatures). When  Boddham-Whetham   returned,   the   Indians  rejoiced to see him, “as they had not expected  that the mountaindemons would allow us to  return,” he wrote.  Romulus and Remus  840   rooster

=== 페이지 858 ===
Introduction   841  Rooster weathervane in Freiburg, Germany   (Photo by Susan Dow)

=== 페이지 859 ===
Rosalia, St.   (rose garden)   (12th century)   In  Christian legend, patron saint of Palermo, Sicily.  Invoked against plague. Feast, 4 September.  Rosalia left home at 16 and went to live in  a cave, where she wore away the stone with  her knees during her devotions. She eventually  died there. In time her body was covered with  stalactites. When a plague broke out in Palermo  in 1624, the people took her body and carried  it in procession. The plague then stopped. In  gratitude the people constructed a chapel in the  cave. The saint is usually portrayed reclining in  her cave with a bright light around her. The Vir -  gin Mary crowns her with roses, and she holds a  crucifix on her breast. She wears a brown tunic,  sometimes ragged, and her hair is loose.  See also:   virgin mary  Rosamund   (sixth   century)   In   medieval  legend,   daughter   of   King   Cunimond   of   the  Gepidae. She was forced to marry Alboin, king  of the Lombards, after he killed her father. Later  he made her drink from the skull of her dead  father. In revenge, she had Perideus, the secre -  tary of Helmechis, her lover, murder Alboin. She  then married Helmechis and fled to Ravenna,  but later planned his death so that she could  marry Longines. Helmechis, knowing of the  plot, forced Rosamund to drink from a poisoned  cup, and she died. Swinburne’s play   Rosamund,  Queen of the Lombards   deals with the murderess.  rose   A thorny shrub with fragrant flow -  ers; in world mythology and folklore, often  associated with death and resurrection. The  ancient Romans sometimes decked their tombs  with roses, and Roman wills frequently speci -  fied that roses be planted on the grave. In  Switzerland cemeteries still are known as rose -  gardens. In Christian symbolism the rose is  associated with the Virgin Mary, one of whose  titles is “The Mystical Rose.” It is also associ -  ated with St. Dorothy, who carries roses in a  basket. For Arabs the rose is a symbol of mas -  culine beauty.  See also:   dorothy, st.; virgin mary  Rose and the Butterfly, The   Turkish fable.  A rose and a butterfly were debating who was  the better creature. The rose said: “Poor crea -  ture, how short your life is! You are here today  and gone tomorrow. But I remain on my stalk,  spread my leaves in the sun, and scatter scent on  the air without change.” “You are a prisoner,”  the butterfly replied, “while I have the power  of going into many gardens. Besides, your life  is also short. A storm may throw you to the  ground at any moment.” The rose replied that  she, at least, was beautiful—the butterfly was  a worm with wings! As they argued, a woman  came and plucked the rose, and a bird swooped  down and carried off the butterfly. Moral: Pride  and vanity often make people fancy themselves  superior to others, though they are really of no  importance, being subject to the same condi -  tions of decay and death.  See also:   aesopic fables; butterfly  Rosebush and the Apple Tree, The   Jewish  fable found in the Talmud. A rosebush and an  apple tree were having a debate.  “Who can compare with me?” the rosebush  asked. “My flowers are beautiful and sweet to  Rose   (Walter Crane)  842   Rosalia, St.

=== 페이지 860 ===
smell. True, you are larger, but what pleasure  do you give to mankind?”  “Even though you are more beautiful than I,”  replied the apple, “you are not as good as I am.”  “What do you mean?” replied the rosebush.  “How are you better than I?”  “You do not give your flowers to man unless  you first wound him with your thorns. But  I give my fruit to all, even those who throw  stones at me.”  See also:   talmud  rosemary   A pungent herb in European folk -  lore, often associated with rejuvenation and  love. According to English folklore, it could  make one young again and strengthen one’s  memory. It also was believed that if a girl took  rosemary blended with thyme on St. Agnes’s  Eve (20 January), she would be sent a vision  of her lover-to-be. In the language of flowers  it means “fidelity in love.” The magical quali -  ties of rosemary are referred to in the refrain  to Simon and Garfunkel’s song “Scarborough  Fair”: “parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme.”  See also:   agnes, st.; parsley; sage  Rose of Lima, St.   (fame, kind)   (1568–1617)  In Christian legend, patron of South America  and the Philippines. Feast, 30 August.  Born Isabel de Flores y de Oliva, but known  as Rose, the saint came of a poor family in Lima,  Peru. She was noted for her beauty. Many men  asked for her hand in marriage, but she refused.  She went so far as to disfigure her face with  a compound of pepper and quicklime. When  her mother asked her to wear a wreath of roses  around her head, they turned into a crown of  thorns. St. Rose joined the Dominican Order,  where her reputation for ecstasy and mystical  transports caused a scandal as well as a church  investigation. St. Rose bore it all with patience  and spent her time taking care of Indians enslaved  by the Spaniards. When Pope Clement X was  asked to canonize her in 1671, he refused, saying,  “Indian and a saint! That is as likely as roses rain -  ing from heaven.” Instantly a shower of roses fell  on the Vatican until the pope acknowledged his  error. The saint was painted by Murillo wearing  a thorny crown, holding in her hand the figure  of the infant Christ. She was also the subject of a  painting by Fernando Botero.  Rosetta Stone   Slab of black basalt contain -  ing inscriptions in hieroglyphics, demotic, and  Greek, so called for the town it was found in.  It allowed Jean-François Champollion (1790–  1832) to decipher the meaning of the Egyptian  hieroglyphics—until that time unknown to the  modern world—because the Rosetta Stone had  the Greek translation for each hieroglyphic  alongside it. The Rosetta Stone came into the  possession of the British Museum after the  French were defeated during the Napoleonic  Wars by the British in 1801.  Rosh Ha-Shanah   (beginning of the year)   In  Judaism, feast of the new year, celebrated the  first and second days of Tishri (September and  October). The feast may originally have been a  commemoration of the dead, because it was a  common belief of ancient peoples that the dead  rejoined the living at the beginning of the year,  but as the feast developed, the commemoration  of the dead was pushed into the background,  and Rosh Ha-Shanah now begins a time of  prayer, penitence, and charity that leads to  Yom Kippur, the greatest Jewish feast. One of  the main features of the feast is the blowing of  the shofar, a ram’s horn, recalling the trumpets  and thunders heard on Mount Sinai by Moses  and the people (Exod. 19:19). It also recalls the  belief that Yahweh, the Hebrew god, could dis -  pel the powers of evil (Zech. 9:14–15).  As part of the synagogue service the poem  Unetanneh Tokeph   (let us rehearse the grandeur)  is recited, telling of the Day of Judgment when  God will judge all people. The poem, accord -  ing to medieval Jewish legend, was written by  Ammon of Mainz (10th century   c.e. ). He was  called by the archbishop of Mainz to renounce  his Jewish faith. When he did not respond, the  archbishop had him arrested, and his toes and  Rosh Ha-Shanah   843

=== 페이지 861 ===
fingers were cut off. Dying, he was brought to  the synagogue. As the cantor was about to intone  the Sanctification (Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of  Hosts), Ammon said, “Pause, that I may sanctify  the most holy Name.” He began to recite but  died when he reached “Yet Thy glories cover us,  For Thy name is over us.” On Rosh Ha-Shanah  Jewish legend says God opens three books. The  first book contains the names of pious and virtu -  ous people who will be blessed for the coming 12  months. The second book contains the names of  the wicked who are inscribed for death. In the  third book, which is the largest, are the names  of those who are between, neither very pious  nor very evil. These people are given a chance  to make a final choice before the record is sealed  on Yom Kippur. One ceremony associated with  the holiday is called Tashlich (Thou wilt cast),  in which it is customary to cast or shake crumbs  from one’s pocket into the water, symbolizing  the casting away of sins. The custom stems from  ancient pagan practice in which sops were cast to  the spirits of rivers on important days of the year.  The Romans, for example, cast straw puppets  into the Tiber on the Ides of May. In European  folkways offerings used to be cast into the Dan -  ube, Rhine, Rhone, Elbe, and Neckar on New  Year’s Eve.  See also:   ammon of mainz; moses; yahweh  Rosie the Riveter   In American folklore  of World War II, name given to a fictional  woman who symbolized women’s contributions  to the war effort. In most depictions of Rosie  she   is   shown   flexing   her   muscles.   Norman  Rockwell’s painting   Rosie the Riveter   is modeled  on Michelangelo’s fresco of the prophet Isaiah  in the Sistine Chapel.  Ross, Betsy   (1752–1836)   In American his -  tory   and   folklore,   creator   of   the   first   Stars  and Stripes American flag. Betsy was a widow  struggling   to   run   her   own   upholstery   busi -  ness. Upholsterers in colonial America not only  worked   on   furniture   but   did   all   manner   of  sewing, including making flags. According to  an account read before the Historical Society  of Pennsylvania on 29 May 1870 by William  Canby, Betsy Ross’s grandson, the first flag was  made in June 1776 at the request of a commit -  tee made up of George Washington, Robert  Morris, and George Ross, but no evidence exists  to support this. In 1781 Francis Hopkinson,  who had designed a naval flag, asked Congress  to reimburse him for the design of the original  Stars and Stripes. Congress declined.  Round   Table   In   Arthurian   legend,   the  table made by Merlin at Carduel for Uther  Pendragon, the father of King Arthur. Uther  Pendragon gave the table to King Leodegraunce  of Cameliard, who gave it to King Arthur when  Arthur   married   Guinever,   Leodegraunce’s  daughter.   Its   circular   design   eliminated   the  usual   head   and   foot   and   therefore   assured  equality of the knights and prevented jealousy.  According to Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur,   there  were 150 knights who had “sieges,” or seats, at  the Round Table. King Leodegraunce brought  100 men to the wedding of King Arthur and  Guinever. Merlin filled up 28 of the vacant  seats, and King Arthur elected Gwain and Tor.  The remaining seats were left to those who  might prove worthy of the honor. Always 12  knights, the number of Apostles of Jesus, were  associated with the Round Table, though their  names vary in different sources. The most fre -  quent names were Lancelot, Tristram, Lamora,  Tor, Galahad, Gwain, Gareth, Plaomides, Kay,  Mark, Mordred, Accolon, Ballamore, Beleobus,  Belvoure,   Bersunt,   Bors,   Ector   de   Maris,  Ywaine,   Floll,   Gaheris,   Galohalt,   Grislet,  Lionell,   Marhaus,   Paginet,   Pelles,   Perceval,  Sagris, Superabilis, and Turquine.  See   also:   accolon;   arthur;   galahad;  gareth; guinever; gwain; lancelot of the  lake; merlin; perceval; tristram and iseult;  uther pendragon  rowan   A small tree sometimes known as the  mountain ash. In medieval Christian belief,  the rowan, which had been associated with the  844   Rosie the Riveter

=== 페이지 862 ===
pagan Druids, was believed to be potent against  witchcraft.   In   Scotland   suspected   witches  touched with a rowan branch were believed to  be then carried away by the devil. Crosses of  rowan branches were placed in strategic places,  such as over doorways, as protection against  evil. In one legend the wood of the True Cross  of Christ is rowan, only one of many trees so  credited. Another belief was that rowans grow -  ing in graveyards kept the dead in their graves  until Judgment Day.  See also:   cross; druids  Rübezahl   (turnip remnant)   In Germanic folk -  lore, the turnip-counter spirit. He once abducted  a princess who desired turnips. He planted them  for her, and she asked him to count the seeds.  While Rübezahl was counting, she escaped.  Rudra   (howler, ruddy one)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, a storm god, later identified with Shiva;  father of the Rudras or Maruts, wind gods.  In the Rig-Veda, the sacred collection of  hymns to the gods, Rudra is portrayed as both  beneficent and demonic. He is the god who  heals both men and cattle, as in one hymn:  We implore Rudra,  the lord of songs,  the lord of animal sacrifices,  for health, wealth, and his favor.  In   his   demonic   role   he   is   addressed   in  another hymn:  May the weapon of Rudra avoid us,  may the great anger of the flaring one  pass us by.   .   .   .  O tawny and manly god, showing thyself,  so as neither to be angry nor to kill,  be mindful of our invocations,  and rich in brave sons,  we shall magnify thee in the congregation.  In some texts Rudra is said to have been  born a boy from the forehead of Brahma. In  another account he is said to have later divided  into male and female, then multiplied, produc -  ing the Maruts, or Rudras.  See   also:   brahma;   maruts;   rudras;  rig-veda  rue   An   aromatic   evergreen,   called   by  Shakespeare the “sour herbs of grace” ( Hamlet  IV.v). It appears in English folklore and liter -  ature as a symbol of pity, mercy, and forgive -  ness, but it also symbolizes grief, repentance,  bitterness,   and   disdain.   An   early   English  meaning still current is sorrow or regret. In  the Middle Ages witches’ brew contained rue  because it was a potent force in the working  of evil, but it was also an antidote to witch -  craft. In Italy rue warded off spells cast by the  evil eye. Dipped in holy water, rue branches  were used to sprinkle bedrooms to counter  demons that were upsetting a couple’s sexual  relations.  Ruggiero   (Rogero)   In   the   Charlemagne  cycle of legends, a Saracen hero, also called  Roger. He was nursed by a lioness and brought  up by Atlantes, a magician, who gave him a  dazzling magic shield. He threw it into a well  because   he   thought   it   unfair   to   fight   with  it. Ruggiero deserted the Moorish army for  Charlemagne’s, becoming a Christian. He mar -  ried Bradamant, Charlemagne’s niece, and later  killed Rodomont, another Saracen hero, who  at his wedding accused him of being a traitor.  Ruggiero appears in Ariosto’s   Orlando Furioso  and Tasso’s   Jerusalem Delivered.  See also:   atlantes; charlemagne; rodomont  Ruh   (breath)   In   Islamic   mythology,   angel  often identified with Gabriel. Ruh’s duty is to  bring motion to heavenly spheres, as well as  to living beings. With the permission of Allah,  Ruh can also stop the heavenly spheres. In  the Koran (sura 16) the term   ruh   is used for  spirit, as when Allah sends “down angels with  the spirit” on “whomsoever He will.” In early  Arabic poetry,   ruh   meant breath or wind, but  Ruh   845

=== 페이지 863 ===
in later literature it was used not only for the  angel but also for the human spirit and some -  times even to mean the djinn or demons.  See also:   djinn; gabriel; koran, the  Ruhanga   (creator)   In   African   mythology  (Ankore and Banyoro of Uganda), creator god  who first allowed humans to return to life after  death. All the people had to do was express  happiness at the return of the dead. One day a  woman refused to put on her best clothes and  rejoice when one of the dead returned because  her pet dog had died. This so angered Ruhanga  that he decided that men and women should  die just as the animals do and not return to life.  Ruhanga is also known as Kazooba (sun) in his  role as sun god; Mukameiguru (he who reigns  in the sky) as sky god; and Rugaba (giver) as the  giver of life to man, animals, and plants.  Ruidoso   In   American   western   folklore,   a  big maverick steer that brought destruction on  all who came in contact with it. At its death it  turned into the ghost steer of the Pecos. Its  aggressive roar, that of a bull ready to charge,  can still be heard at night.  See also:   wild herd  Rumina   (teat)   In Roman mythology, god -  dess of suckling infants and animals, consort  of Ruminus, her male counterpart. In Rome  a sanctuary to both deities stood at the foot of  the Palatine Hill in the neighborhood of the  Lupercal. In the same place stood the Ruminal  fig tree, believed by some scholars to be an  early emblem or symbol of Rumina and said to  be the one under which Romulus and Remus  were suckled by the she-wolf. It is mentioned  in Ovid’s   Fasti   (book 2).  See also:   ovid; romulus and remus  Rumpelstiltskin   Popular   European   folk -  tale,   best   known   in   the   Grimms’   version.  Rumpelstiltskin is a dwarf who promises to  help a maiden spin flax into gold if she will  give him her first-born child. In desperation  she agrees, but when the child is born, she  begs Rumpelstiltskin to let her keep him. He  agrees to let her keep the child if she can guess  his name within three days. She dispatches all  of her servants in an effort to learn his name.  One overhears Rumpelstiltskin say his name  while reciting a rhyme and dancing in the for -  est. At the end of three days he returns, and  the girl is ready for him and speaks his name.  In   the   Grimms’   version   she   asks:   “Is   your  name Kunz? Is your name Heinz? Can your  name be Rumpelstiltskin?” He is so angry that  he drives himself into the ground by stamp -  ing his foot and tears himself in half trying to  extricate himself. In some European versions  the dwarf is called Tit-Tot-Tom, Titeliture,  Riodin-Riodon, and Dancing Vargaluska.  Rumpelstiltskin is tale type 520, the “The  Master   Reveals   the   Riddle.”   The   motif   of  guessing the name of a supernatural creature  which then gives power over him is also widely  known in folk tales.  See also:   motif; tale type  runes   A Germanic script based on the Latin  alphabet from the Gothic   run,   meaning secret  or mystery. These inscriptions were made with  a sharp instrument on wood, metal weapons,  and stone monuments and are symbols with  ritualistic,   magical,   or   oracular   significance.  They occur in all Germanic regions of northern  Europe and have a rugged and angular shape.  More   than   3,000   such   inscriptions   survive,  mostly in Scandinavia. According to Tacitus in  Rumpelstiltskin  846   Ruhanga

=== 페이지 864 ===
his   Germania   (98   c.e. ), runes were carved on  small pieces of wood and cast as lots by priests  in order to foretell the future. During the Nazi  period in Germany, Heinrich Himmler’s SS  ( Schutzstaffel ) used the ancient Germanic rune  for writing the SS.  rusalka   (female water spirit)   In Slavic folk -  lore, female water spirit who lives part of the year  in water and part in the forest. A   rusalka   could  not live long out of water, but with her comb  she was not in danger, for the comb gave her the  ability to conjure up water when she needed it.  Two types of   rusalki   are found in Slavic  folktales.   The   northern   type   is   a   demonic  being, somewhat pale, who entices men with  her songs and then drowns them, much like  Sirens in Greek mythology or the Lorelei in  Germany. The southern variant is an attractive  girl, who also entices men but truly loves them.  When a man dies in her arms, it is considered a  blessing. Among the Bulgarians, the   rusalki   are  called   samovily   and are believed to be the spirits  of unbaptized dead girls. The Slovaks believe  them to be the souls of brides who died after  their marriage night. Poles believe them to  be beautiful girls punished for leading wicked  lives. The Polish variety are good to those who  were kind to them in life and punish those  where were unkind. The Russian composer  Alexander Dargomizhsky composed an opera  Rusalka,   as did the Czech composer Antonin  Dvorák. Dvorák’s   Rusalka   is based on a story by  Alexander Pushkin.  See also:   leshy; lorelei; sirens  Rustum   (Rostastahm,   Rustem)   In   the  Persian epic poem   Shah Namah,   by Firdusi,  great hero and father of Sohrab.  While yet a child, Rustum displayed great  courage and strength. He ate as much as five  men could eat in a day and was nursed by 10  women. When Rustum grew up, King Kai-  Kaus   appointed   him   captain-general   of   his  army. One day the king decided he wanted to  invade Mazinderan, a beautiful and rich city.  The idea was planted in the king’s mind by a  demon who wished the venture to bring about  the monarch’s destruction. When the king of  Mazinderan heard that Kai-Kaus was on his  way to invade his kingdom, he called on the  White Demon for help. Meanwhile, Kai-Kaus,  full of anticipation of victory, was camped on a  plain near the city, but hailstorms poured down  in the night, destroying most of the army. For  seven days the king lamented the loss of his  army. Then he heard the voice of the White  Demon, which said to him:  O king, thou art the willow-tree, all barren,  With neither fruit, nor flower.  What could induce  The dream of conquering Mazinderan?  (James Atkinson translation).  The White Demon seized the king, but  the king managed to send a message asking  for help. Rustum started on his journey to free  the king. In one day he came to a forest full of  wild asses. Hungry, he caught one and cooked  it for dinner. While he was asleep a wild lion  attacked him, but Rustum was saved by his  faithful horse, Ruksh. The next day the two  continued on their journey. Coming to a des -  Rustum fighting the White Demon  Rustum   847

=== 페이지 865 ===
ert, Rustum prayed for some water, which was  granted him. After drinking, Rustum addressed  his faithful horse:  Beware, my steed, of future strife.  Again, thou must not risk thy life;  Encounter not with lion fell,  Nor demon still more terrible;  But should an enemy appear,  Ring loud the warning in my ear  (James Atkinson translation).  After delivering his speech, Rustum lay down  to sleep, leaving Ruksh unbridled and at liberty to  graze close by. At midnight a monstrous dragon,  eight yards long, appeared. Ruksh awoke his  master, who attacked the monster. Ruksh helped  his master by biting and tearing the monster’s  scaly hide while Rustum severed its head.  After killing the dragon Rustum resumed his  journey, coming to a beautiful green spot where  he settled for the night. He found a readyroasted  deer, some bread, and salt. He sat down to eat  when suddenly the food disappeared; a flask of  wine and a tambourine took its place. Rustum  played the instrument, and a beautiful woman  appeared. Not knowing she was a demoness,  Rustum placed in her hands a cup of wine,  calling upon the name of Allah. Suddenly she  turned into a Black Demon. Seeing this, Rustum  took his sword and cut her in two.  Next   the   hero   encountered   Aulad,   who  ruled part of the land. The two fought, and  Aulad lost. Rustum then asked Aulad to give  him information as to where King Kai-Kaus  was   being   held   prisoner.   Rustum   promised  to make Aulad the next king of Mazinderan  if Aulad gave the correct information. Aulad  told him where the demons were located, and  Rustum went to their hiding place and defeated  the demon Arzend. Then the two, Rustum and  Aulad, went to the city of Mazinderan. Ruksh,  Rustum’s horse, neighed so loudly that the  sound of it reached the imprisoned king.  Before Rustum could free the king, however,  he had to fight the White Demon at Halt-koh  (seven mountains). He went to the mountain  and found 400 demons. He asked Aulad when to  attack and was told that the best time was when  the sun was at its hottest because the demons  always liked to take a nap during the heat. When  the sun was at its height and the demons nap -  ping, Rustum dismembered them. A few, how -  ever, escaped to tell the White Demon.  Advancing   to   the   White   Demon’s   cave,  Rustum looked down and saw that the cave was  as dark as hell itself.  “Are you tired of life,” the White Demon  cried out, “that you invade my kingdom? Tell  me your name, since I do not want to destroy a  nameless thing.”  Rustum then told the White Demon his  name, and the battle began. The hero pierced  the White Demon’s thigh, lopping off a limb.  The two fought furiously until at last Rustum  grabbed the White Demon, lifted him in the  air, and dashed him to the ground. He then  tore out the demon’s heart, and demons came  out of his body as he bled. Rustum then took  the heart of the White Demon and restored the  sight of King Kai-Kaus, who had earlier been  blinded by the demons.  In Persian art Rustum is often portrayed  wearing armor and a helmet, with the skin of a  leopard as part of his outfit.  See also:   allah ;   shah namah ; sohrab  Ruth   (friendship)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,  a   Moabite   heroine   and   name   of   an   Old  Testament   book.   She   was   an   ancestress   of  King David and Jesus. During the days of the  Judges, Elimelech and Naomi, with their two  sons, went to Moab to escape a famine in their  native   Bethlehem.   The   sons,   Mahlon   and  Chilion, married Moabite women, Orpah and  Ruth. Then all of the men died. Naomi, hear -  ing that there was again bread in her native  land, decided to return, and her two daugh -  ters-in-law wished to go with her. Naomi told  them to return to their own families. Orpah  agreed,   but   Ruth   said   to   Naomi,   “Intreat  me not to leave thee, or to return from fol -  848   Ruth

=== 페이지 866 ===
lowing after thee .   .   . thy people shall be my  people, and thy God my God” (Ruth 1:16). In  Bethlehem Ruth gleaned in the field of Boaz,  a kinsman of Elimelech and “a mighty man  of wealth,” and she found favor in his eyes.  Recognizing her kinship and its customary  rights, Boaz protected her by marriage, and  from this union King David descended. In  Christian art the Tree of Jesse, the father of  King David, sometimes portrays Boaz on one  of its branches.  See also:   david; jesus; tree of jesse   Ruth and Boaz   (Hans Holbein)  Ruth   849

=== 페이지 867 ===
6  850  s  Sab-dag   (foundation owner)   In Tibetan folk -  lore, the house-god, devil, or spirit located in a  fixed place, who must be appeased or else he will  cause harm. To make sure he is in a good mood,  once a year the Lamas propitiate him by doing  “the water sacrifice for the eight injurers.”  Sachs,   Hans   (1494–1576)   German cobbler  in Nürnberg who wrote numerous shrovetide  plays on themes that were common among the  German people. One such play tells the story  of a wandering student who meets a grieving  peasant woman. When he tells her that he is on  his way to Paris, she misunderstands him and  thinks he is going to Paradise, whereupon she  asks him to take along gifts of food and money  for her husband who has only recently died. The  student quickly sees his advantage and asks for  more and more to take along, thus bilking the  poor woman of her worldly goods. Hans Sachs’s  stories deal with knights and priests, peasants  and rogues, jealous husbands and greedy mer -  chants, deceitful women and lazy servants. He  also wrote numerous fables and jests ( Schwank   in  German), about a land of plenty, and even about  saints, all of which ended with a moral.  See also:   cockaigne, land of  Sadhyas   (to be attained)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, a group of spirits who inhabit the region  between the earth and the sun. Their number  varies from 12 to 17.  Sadi   (c. 1184–1263)   Assumed name of the  Persian   poet   Sheikh   Muslih   Addin,   whose  major works are   The Gulistan   and   The Bustan,  didactic works in prose and verse containing  numerous fables.  A descendant of Ali, Muhammad’s son-in-  law, Sadi studied at Baghdad and, according  to some accounts, was made a prisoner by the  Christian Crusaders, then ransomed. His major  works,   The Gulistan   and   The Bustan,   have been  known in the West for centuries, even though  his predilection for homosexual liaisons was  often masked in translations of his works.  Ralph Waldo Emerson so admired Sadi that  he often used Sadi’s name as a pseudonym for his  poems. One of Emerson’s major poems, titled  Saadi,   contains Emerson’s summation of the man  whom he considered a great poet and moralist.  See also:   ali; angry acrobat, the;   bustan,  the ; dervish and the king, the;   gulistan,  the ; muhammad; slave and the master, the  Sadko   In   Russian   folklore,   a   merchant  bogatyr,   an epic hero. He appears in the   bylini,  the epic songs, as well as in folktales, originally  as an ancient water deity. Sadko was a rich mer -  chant who sailed the sea but never paid tribute

=== 페이지 868 ===
to the czar of the sea. One day he descended to  the watery depths, met the sea czar, and played  for him on his   qusli,   a stringed instrument  similar to the psaltery. The czar of the sea was  so moved that he began to dance, causing a  storm that wrecked many ships. When Sadko  came to the water’s surface again, he sailed on  the River Volga for some 12 years. Wishing to  return to his city of Novgorod, he cut a slice of  bread, put some salt on it, and placed it on the  waves of the Volga. The river thanked Sadko  for his kindness and told him to see its brother,  the lake of Ilmen. In reward for his kindness  the lake told Sadko to cast his nets into the  waters. They were at once filled with fish,  which then were miraculously transformed into  silver. Nikolai Rimsky- Korsakov used some of  the legends for his opera   Sadko.  See also:   bylina  Saehrimnir   (blackened)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy, the magic boar that was partaken of by the  heroes (einherjar) in Valhalla. It was killed daily,  cooked and eaten, and returned to life the next  day, so the ritual could be repeated. Saehrimnir  was prepared by Andhrimnir (the sooty-faced),  the cook of the gods, who boiled the boar in  the magic caldron, Eldhrimir. In the Lay of  Grimnir, one of the poems in the   Poetic Edda,  Saehrimnir is said to be “the best of flesh.”  See also:   einherjar;   poetic edda  sage   A shrub of the mint family, used as an  herb in cooking, also an all-purpose remedy in  Greek and Roman folk medicine. It was dedi -  cated to the Greek god Zeus and the Roman  Jupiter. In Christian folk medicine, sage was used  to freshen the blood, cure nervous stomach, and  relieve epilepsy, palsy, fever, and the plague. An  English folk rhyme says: “He that would live for  aye, / Must eat sage in May.” Sage was planted  on graves in medieval England. The magical  qualities of sage are referred to in the refrain  to Simon and Garfunkel’s song “Scarborough  Fair”: “parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme.”  See also:   jupiter; parsley; rosemary; zeus  saints   Holy ones in Christianity, also holy  ones in Islamic and Judaic folklore and legend.  During the Middle Ages the cult of the saints  among Christians was one of the main aspects  of religion. Many shrines and relics of the  saints were honored and numerous churches  built in their honor. The most important saint  was the Virgin Mary, whose cult was the most  popular, but thousands of other saints were also  honored because it was believed that the saints  in heaven could plead with God for the people  still on earth. St. Thomas Aquinas had written:  “A   propitious   predestination   can   be   helped  by the prayers of the saints.” From the ninth  century on, the legends of the saints abound in  medieval thought. Saints were invoked to cure  diseases and ills; for example, St. Christopher  to protect against bad dreams or St. Thomas  à   Becket   to   prevent   or   cure   blindness.   St.  Agatha was invoked to protect against fire, but  St. Florian should be invoked if the fire had  already started. Those with toothache called  on St. Appolonia because she had all her teeth  pulled out at her martyrdom. Saints also were  patrons of cities, churches, and countries. St.  George protected England, St. Peter protected  Flanders, and St. Ursula protected Cologne.  Saints were invoked by children, wives, idiots,  students; every aspect of medieval life had a  patron saint to watch over it. Archers had St.  Sebastian, who had been shot at with arrows.  Bakers prayed to St. Winifred because he was  also a baker. Captives looked to St. Barbara  since she had been locked in a tower. The  insane, if they could pray, invoked St. Sadko  Dymphna. The thousands of saints during the  Middle Ages did not receive formal recogni -  tion from the Church. Most of the cult grew  up under popular support. The first histori -  cally attested canonization of a saint took place  in 993 when Pope John XV sainted Ulrich of  Augsburg. Sometimes a bishop would saint a  person in the hope that revenue would come  into his diocese from the saint’s relics, which  would then be encased in an elaborate shrine  for the faithful. A reaction against the cult of  saints   851

=== 페이지 869 ===
saints came at the close of the Middle Ages.  At the Reformation the practice was attacked  by Calvinists and Zwinglians on the grounds  that the Bible did not sanction such practice.  The Church of England in the Thirty-Nine  Articles held: “The Romish Doctrine concern -  ing .   .   . Images as Relics, and also Invocation  of   Saints,   is   a   fond   thing,   vainly   invented,  and grounded upon no warranty of Scripture,  but rather repugnant to the Word of God.”  (Article 22) The Protestant attack on the saints  was countered by the Roman Catholics. The  Council of Trent (1563) stated: “The saints,  who reign together with Christ, offer up their  own prayers to God for men.   .   .   . it is good  and useful suppliantly to invoke them, and to  have recourse to their prayers, aid, and help for  obtaining the benefits of God.” The Catholic-  Protestant battle of the saints continues into  the   present.   Some   Protestant   groups   have  relaxed their attack, and the Roman church  has softened its cry for the saints. Secular writ -  ers have entered the field. William James, in  The Varieties of Religious Experience,   wrote: “In  the life of the saints, technically so called, the  spiritual faculties are strong, but what gives the  impression of extravagance proves usually on  examination to be a relative deficiency of intel -  lect.” Mussolini was not so subtle in his attack.  In a speech given in 1904 he said, “The history  of the saints is mainly the history of insane  people.” A comic note was struck by Ambrose  Bierce in   The Devil’s Dictionary,   in which   saint   is  defined as “a dead sinner revised and edited.”  See also:   agatha, st.; appolonia; barbara,  st.; befana; christopher, st.; florian, st.;  george, st.; sebastian, st.; thomas aquinas,  st.; thomas à becket, st.; ulrich, st.; ursula,  st.; virgin mary  Sakatimuna   In   Islamic   mythology,   enor -  mous serpent killed by the archangel Gabriel.  Allah   sent   Gabriel   saying:   “Take   down   for  me the iron staff of the ‘creed’ which dangles  at the gate of heaven, and kill the serpent  Sakatimuna.” Gabriel did as God had com -  manded, and the serpent was broken apart, the  head and forepart shooting up above the heav -  ens and the tail penetrating downward beneath  the earth. Some commentators believe this tale  is to be taken as an explanation of an eclipse.  See also:   allah; gabriel; sang gala raja  Sakhar   In   Jewish   and   Islamic   legend,   a  demon who impersonated King Solomon.  King Solomon, having defeated Sidon, slew  the king of that city and brought away the king’s  daughter, Jerada, to be one of his mistresses.  The young girl continually cried over the death  of her father. To calm her, Solomon ordered  the djinn to make an image of the dead king.  When it was finished, it was placed in Jerada’s  chamber, where she and her maids worshipped  it every day. Solomon learned from his vizier  Asaf that the women were committing idolatry,  and he ordered the image destroyed. To atone  for his mistake Solomon then went into the  desert to ask God for forgiveness. But God  wanted more than a plea from Solomon.  It was the king’s custom when he washed or  “eased himself” to remove his magic ring and  hand it to the concubine Amina. One day, when  she had the ring in her custody, the demon  Sakhar appeared in the shape of Solomon and  took the ring. With it Sakhar had complete  control of the entire kingdom. Solomon in the  meantime had changed in appearance and was  not recognized by his subjects. He wandered  about for 40 days (the same length of time the  image had been worshipped); then Sakhar flew  away, casting the magic ring into the sea. The  king later recovered it from inside a fish. Solo -  mon eventually captured Sakhar, tied a great  stone to his neck, and threw him into the Lake  of Tiberias.  See also:   djinn; solomon  Sakhmet   (Sekhmet,   Sechmet,   Sekhait,  Sekhauit,   Skhautet,   Sekhem)   (the   powerful  one)   In Egyptian mythology, the lion god -  dess, honored as goddess of war; called Sakhmis  by the Greeks. She was the consort of the god  852   Sakatimuna

=== 페이지 870 ===
Ptah, and together with their son Nefertem they  formed the divine triad of gods worshipped at  Memphis. Death came into the world when the  Eye of Ra was sent down to Sakhmet to punish  a rebellious humanity. In Egyptian art Sakhmet  is often depicted as a woman with the head of a  lioness, which is surmounted by the solar disk  encircled by a uraeus. The numerous images of  the lioness goddess in hardstone that are often  found in museums throughout the world repre -  sent Sakhmet and were all originally found in the  precinct of the goddess Mut in southern Karnak.  It is assumed by scholars that there were two  images of Sakhmet for each day of the year to  which prayers were addressed to gain her favor.  See also:   mut; ptah; uraeus  Sakradhanus   In Hindu mythology, the bow  (rainbow) of the storm god, Indra.  See also:   indra  Saku-Ikazuchi   In Japanese mythology, one  of the Ikazuchi, the eight gods of thunder.  See also:   ikazuchi  Salacia   (salt-spring)   In   Roman   mythology,  goddess of spring water; wife of Neptune. She  was identified by the Romans with the Greek  Amphitrite.  See also:   amphitrite; neptune  Saladin   (1137–1193)   In   medieval   history  and legend, sultan of Syria and Egypt. He was  the enemy, as well as the friend, of Richard  the Lion-Hearted. Saladin appears as Sultan  Aladine in Tasso’s epic of the First Crusade,  Jerusalem Delivered.   Walter Scott introduces  him in his novel   The Talisman,   first disguised  as Sheerkohf, emir of Kurdistan, and later as  Adonbeck el Hakim, the physician.  See also:   richard the lion-hearted  salamander   A small amphibian, similar to a  lizard, with smooth, moist skin. In world mythol -  ogy and folklore, the salamander was believed to  be poisonous. The antidote for its poison was  a drink made by brewing stinging nettle in a  tortoise   broth.   In   Greek   folklore,   according  to Pliny, the salamander “seeks the hottest fire  to breed in, but quenches it with the extreme  frigidity of its body.” Christians, echoing this  belief, adopted the salamander as a symbol of the  Christian struggle against the desires of hot, sin -  ful flesh. Francis I of France, seeking an appro -  priate symbol for his absolute dictatorial pow -  ers, chose a salamander surrounded by flames  above the inscription: “I nourish and extinguish.”  Paracelsus adopted the salamander as the name  of the elemental being inhabiting fire.  See also:   gnomes; sylphs; undine  Saleh   In Islamic legend, prophet who preached  to the Thamudites. They insisted that Saleh  perform a miracle if he wished them to believe  in Allah. They suggested that he come to their  festival, where they would ask their gods for help  and he would ask Allah. They called upon their  idols and received no response. Then Jonda Ebn  Amru, their leader, pointed to a rock and told  Saleh that if he could make a pregnant shecamel  come out of the rock he would believe. Saleh  called upon Allah, the rock went into labor, and  a she-camel appeared and gave birth to a young  Salamander   (Melchior Meier)  Saleh   853

=== 페이지 871 ===
camel.   Seeing   this   miracle,   Jonda   believed,  although the majority of people did not. Allah  then   destroyed   the   unbelievers.   The   Koran  (sura 7) mentions the “she-camel of Allah” but  does not give the legend, which was supplied by  Islamic commentaries on the sacred text.  See also:   allah; koran, the  Salman al-Parisi   (seventh century)   In Isla-  mic legend, saint, patron of all corporations. A  companion of Muhammad, who spoke highly  of him, Salman ran away as a boy to follow  a   Christian   monk   but   eventually   was   con -  vinced that Muhammad was the prophet sent  to restore the faith of Abraham of the Old  Testament. Salman is considered one of the  founders of Sufism, the mystical sect of Islam.  Its name is believed to be derived from the  Arabic word   suf,   wool, because of the coarse  woolen garments worn by ascetics. Other pos -  sible sources of the term are the Arabic word  for purity and the Greek word   sophia,   wisdom.  The early Sufis dedicated their lives to devo -  tion and seclusion. There are references to  them in the   Rubaiyat   of Omar Khayyam, such  as the ironic number 87:  Whereat some one of the loquacious Lot—  I think a Súfi pipkin—waxing hot—  “All this of Pot and Potter—Tell me then,  Who is the Potter, pray, and who the Pot?  See also:   abraham; muhammad  Salmon of Knowledge   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, a magic fish fed by nuts dropped from the  nine hazel trees on the edge of the river Boyne.  He is the repository of otherworldly wisdom.  According to legend, the bard Finneces had  been fishing for the salmon for seven years. A  boy named Fionn happened along, and when  the fish was being cooked over a fire, Fionn  touched it with his finger, burning it, and thrust  his finger in his mouth, thus acquiring the oth -  erworldly wisdom that Finneces had sought.  See also:   siegfried  Salome   (peaceful)   In the Bible, N.T., the  wife of Zebedee and the mother of James and  John. She witnessed the Crucifixion and was at  the tomb on Easter (Mark 15:40). The name  is also given to the daughter of Herodias and  Herod Philip in Jewish and Christian tradition,  though the the girl is not named in the Bible.  Her tale is told in Matthew (14:6–8): “But  when Herod’s birthday was kept, the daughter  of Herodias danced before them, and pleased  Herod. Whereupon he promised with an oath  to give her whatsoever she would ask. And she,  being before instructed by her mother, said,  ‘Give me here John Baptist’s head in a charger.’   ”  An executioner then beheaded the prophet.  Medieval legend said that Herodias had been  in love with John the Baptist and Herod in love  with Salome. Hermann Sudermann’s tragedy  The Fires of St. John   and Oscar Wilde’s   Salome,  illustrated by Aubrey Beardsley, are the best-  known versions of the legend. Richard Strauss’s  opera   Salome   uses the Wilde play in a German  translation. Flaubert wrote   Herodias   also using  the legend.  See also:   easter; john the baptist, st.  Saluka-Jataka   Buddhist   folktale,   number  286 of the   Jatakas,   or   Birth-Stories of the Former  Lives of the Buddha.  When Brahmadatta ruled as king of Bena -  res, the future Buddha was born as an ox named  Big Redcoat. He had a younger brother called  Little Redcoat. Both of them worked for a  family in a small village. When one of the girls  in the family came of age, she was asked for in  marriage by a neighboring family for their son.  In the girl’s family there was a pig, called Cel -  ery, who was being fatted to serve as the main  meal on the coming wedding day. “Brother,”  said Little Redcoat one day to Big Redcoat,  “we work for this family and help them earn  a living. Yet they only give us grass and straw,  while they feed Celery, the pig, with rice por -  ridge, and he sleeps comfortably on a platform  under the eaves. What can he do for them that  we can’t?”  854   Salman al-Parisi

=== 페이지 872 ===
Introduction   855  Salome   ( The Dancer’s Reward , by Aubrey Beardsley)

=== 페이지 873 ===
“Don’t be envious of Celery’s porridge,” said  Big Redcoat. “They want to make him fat for  the wedding feast of the young lady of the house.  That’s why they are feeding him. Wait a few days  and you’ll see him dragged out, killed, chopped  to pieces, and eaten up by the wedding guests.”  A few days later, the wedding guests came,  and Celery was killed and eaten. Both oxen,  seeing what happened, were now quite pleased  with their ration.  “In this tale of my former life,” said the  Buddha, “Ananda, my disciple, was Little Red -  coat and I was Big Redcoat.”  See also:   ananda; jataka  Samain   (Samhain, Samhuinn, Sauin)   Irish,  Scottish Gaelic, and Manx names for the sea -  sonal feast on 1 November. The antiquity of  the feast is attested through various sources,  the earliest of which is the first century   b.c.e.  Coligny Calendar, which describes Samain as  the period of dark that precedes the light and  supports the idea that it was the equivalent of  New Year’s Day. Julius Caesar also wrote of the  Gaulish   Dis Pater,   god of death and winter’s  cold, who was also worshipped at this time  of year. There are also references to human  and animal sacrifices as part of the feast. The  Christian calendar celebrates All Saints’ Day,  The Good Samaritan   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  856   Samain

=== 페이지 874 ===
which was introduced by Pope Boniface IV in  the seventh century to replace the pagan festi -  val of the dead. Halloween also continues some  of the Samain traditions, such as when the spir -  its of the dead are suggested by placing burning  candles in hollowed out pumpkins.  Samantabhadra   In   Mahayana   Buddhism,  one of the five Dhyani-Bodhisattvas, represent -  ing universal kindness. His symbols are a magic  jewel and a scroll; his mount is an elephant. In  some Tibetan traditions he is a Buddha, sky  blue in color, without clothing or ornaments.  See also:   dhyani-bodhisattvas; mahayana  Samaritan, Good   In the Bible, N.T., a par -  able told by Jesus (Luke 10:29–37) in answer  to: “Who is my neighbor?” It tells of a man  left half dead by robbers on the road from  Jerusalem to Jericho. A priest and Levite pass  him by in turn, but a Samaritan—a group  despised by the Jews—took care of him and  paid for his lodgings. Jesus ends the parable by  saying, “Which of these three, thinkest thou,  was neighbor unto him that fell among the  theieves? And he said, He that shewed mercy  on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, do thou  likewise” (Luke 20:36–37). The scene has been  painted numerous times in Western art. Today  anyone who attends to the poor and gives them  aid is referred to as a Good Samaritan.  Samba   In Hindu mythology, a son of Krishna  (an incarnation of the god Vishnu) by Jambavati;  he scoffed at sacred things. Once he dressed up  as a pregnant woman and went to three holy  men, asking whether he would give birth to a girl  or a boy. They answered, “This is not a woman,  but the son of Krishna, and he shall bring forth  an iron club which shall destroy the whole race  of Yadu   .   .   . and you and all your people shall  destroy the race by the club.” Samba then gave  birth to an iron club, which later formed part  of the tip of an arrow that killed Krishna when  Jaras (old age) shot at him. In later life Samba  became a leper, but the sun god, Surya, cured  him through fasting and penance. Later Samba  built a temple to worship the sun.  See also:   krishna; surya; vishnu  Sambiki Saru   In Japanese mythology, three  apes: Mizaru (not seeing) with hands over his  eyes, who sees no evil; Kikazaru (not hearing)  covering his ears, who listens to no evil; and  Iwarazaru (not speaking) with his hands on his  mouth, who speaks no evil. They attend either  Saruta Hito no Mikoto, the long-nosed Shinto  god whose nasal appendage is said to be some  seven cubits long, or the god Koshin. The pro -  verbial saying “Hear no evil, see no evil, speak  no evil” came to be associated with monkeys  when travelers to China and Japan saw three  carved   Koshin   monkey   deities   on   pedestals  alongside the road, with their ears, eyes and  mouths covered up.  See also:   ape; koshin  Sam Hart of Woburn   In American folklore  of New England, a horseman who once entered  into a race with the devil. The devil appeared  to Sam in the form of a country parson riding a  black horse and challenged Sam to a race. Both  set off at once, but Sam soon realized that the  horse and its rider were none other than the devil.  He headed for church land, which he knew the  devil could not traverse. When he reached the  sacred site, the devil’s black horse went down on  it haunches and threw the devil. Realizing he had  lost, the devil said: “You’ve cheated one whose  business is cheating, and I’m a decent enough  fellow to own up when I’m beaten. Here’s your  money. Catch it, for you know I can’t cross holy  ground, you rascal. And here’s my horse. He’ll be  tractable enough after I’ve gone home and as safe  as your mare. Good luck to you.” A whiff of sul -  fur smoke burst up from the road, and the devil  disappeared. But Sam’s neighbors never trusted  his black horse. One day, they said, it would carry  its owner to hell to meet the devil.  Samiasa   (Azza,   Semiaza,   Shemhazai,   Shamazya,  Amezzyarak, Uzza) (the name Azza)   In Jewish  Samiasa   857

=== 페이지 875 ===
folklore, a fallen angel who hangs suspended  between heaven and earth, with his nose pierced  as punishment for having had sexual intercourse  with a mortal woman. Samiasa is responsible for  the worship of the sun, moon, and stars because  he has the power to move them when men pray  to him. The English Romantic poet Lord Byron  has Samiasa as one of the principal characters in  his poetic drama   Heaven and Earth.   This drama  deals with the biblical myth of the marriage  between the Sons of God, or angels, and the  daughters of men (Gen. 6:12).  Sammael   (Satanil,   Samil,   Seir,   Salmail)  (poison angel)   In medieval Jewish folklore,  principal   angel   of   death,   regarded   as   both  beneficent and demonic.  Sammael appears in many Jewish folktales  as a dispenser of death, under the control of  God. One tells how he was outwitted by two  clever foxes. Sammael asks God for permission  to kill two of every creature since as yet no one  had died in the world. God grants the request  with the proviso that nothing be killed before  its allotted time. Sammael agreed and then  proceeded to break his promise. Coming upon  two young foxes, he is about to murder them  when they cry out that he has already killed  their parents.  “Look into the water,” they say to Sammael.  The angel looks down and sees the reflec -  tion of the two young foxes. Thinking the  reflection to be foxes he already drowned, he  allows the young foxes to go free.  Sammael   is   mentioned   in   Longfellow’s  poetic drama   Christus: A Mystery   as “full of  eyes,”   holding   a   “sword,   from   which   doth  fall .   .   . a drop of gall” into the mouth of the  dying, thus causing death. One scene in the  drama deals with the young Judas Iscariot, the  betrayer of Jesus. Judas is being taught by a  rabbi who asks the boy why dogs howl at night.  Judas replies that “dogs howl, when the icy  breath” of the “Great Sammael, the Angel of  Death,” is taking flight “through the town.”  See also:   judas iscariot  sampo   (prop   of   life?)   In   the   Finnish   epic  poem   The Kalevala,   magic object forged by the  smith Ilmarinen for Louhi, the evil mistress of  Pohjola, the Northland, as part payment for the  hand of her daughter, the Maiden of Pohjola.  Louhi set up the magic sampo in a hillside  cave, where it took root, producing prosperity for  her land. Vainamoinen, the culture hero, deter -  mined to steal the sampo from Louhi. He con -  structed a ship, and the smith Ilmarinen forged a  sword for him. Both then set off for Pohjola. On  the way the hero Lemminkainen called to them  from the shore, asking to accompany them. They  took him along, but during the voyage their boat  was struck by a giant pike. Vainamoinen killed  the pike and made a harp with which he lulled all  of the people of Pohjola to sleep. With the help  of an ox, the three heroes stole the sampo and  started home. However, Louhi awoke and sent  fog and wind after the three, causing Vainamoin -  en’s harp to fall overboard. Louhi and her men  pursued them in a boat and caught up with them.  A battle ensued in which the sampo fell into the  lake and was broken to pieces. Only a few pieces  floated to the shore. Vainamoinen then planted  them for good luck.  In   The Kalevala   the sampo is pictured as a  three-sided mill, one side or face grinding out  grain, one salt, and one money, all in unlimited  amounts. Its   kirjokansai   (lid) is described as  being of “many colors.” Yet scholars are not  at all sure what the sampo actually represents.  Some see it as a magic mill, others as a symbol  of the North Star, and yet others as a dragon.  See also:   ilmarinen;   kalevala, the ; maiden  of pohjola  Sam   Slick   In American literary folklore, a  Yankee peddler, shrewd, ruthless, and full of  wise   sayings;   created   by   Thomas   Chandler  Haliburton (1796–1865). Sam Slick appears in a  series of Haliburton’s books, the first being   The  Clockmaker, or, The Sayings and Doings of Samuel  Slick of Slickville.   Some of Slick’s sayings are  “Time is like a woman and pigs; the more you  want it to go, the more it won’t” and “Politics  858   Sammael

=== 페이지 876 ===
make a man as crooked as a pack does a peddler;  not that they are so awful heavy either, but it  teaches a man to stoop in the long run.” Born in  Nova Scotia, Haliburton left for England in 1856  and was elected to the House of Commons.  Samson   (sunny or sun-hero)   In the Bible,  O.T., a hero, one of the Judges, whose tale is told  in the Book of Judges (chaps. 13–16). After many  childless years Manoah and his wife were told by  an angel that she would bear a son, Samson. He  later became a leader of the Israelites in their  struggle against the Philistines. Brought up as  a Nazarene, his hair had never been cut, and he  had great strength. On one occasion he caught  300 foxes, tied firebrands to their tails, and set  them loose in the Philistine field (Judg. 15:4–6).  Three thousand of his compatriots, afraid that  the Philistines would punish them for Samson’s  bravery, tied him up and delivered him to the  Philistines. Breaking his bonds, he picked up  from a dead carcass the jawbone of an ass and  killed 1,000 Philistines (Judg. 15:10–15). After a  night in Gaza with a whore he still had enough  strength to tear up and carry away the city  gates (Judg. 16:1–3). He then fell in love with  Delilah, a Philistine woman, who seduced him  into telling her the source of his strength—his  Samson Destroys the Temple of Dagon   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Samson   859

=== 페이지 877 ===
hair. While he slept, she had his hair cut off,  and his strength was gone. The Philistines then  bound him and put out his eyes. During a feast  in the temple of Dagon, the Philistine god, the  blind and now weakened Samson was paraded  before the guests. Feeling his way, he found the  pillars supporting the building and pulled down  the temple, killing himself and thousands of  Philistines (Judg. 16:4–31).  Rembrandt’s   dramatic   Blinding   of   Sam -  son,   Milton’s dramatic poem   Samson Agonistes,  Saint-Saëns’s opera   Samson et Delilah,   and Han -  del’s oratorio   Samson   all deal with the legend,  as does a Hollywood film,   Samson and Delilah,  directed by Cecil B. DeMille.  See also:   delilah  Samuel   (name of God)   (11th century   b.c.e. )  In the Bible, O.T., Prophet, son of Elkanah and  Hannah. His legend is told in 1 and 2 Samuel.  At his birth he was consecrated to temple ser -  vice by his mother, Hannah. When still a child,  he heard the voice of Yahweh, the Hebrew  god, in the night. He continued the work of  Moses by reuniting the people. After a long life  as priest and leader, he yielded to the people’s  demand for a king and anointed Saul as Israel’s  first king. He also anointed David after Saul  had been rejected by Yahweh. He appears in  Barent Fabritius’s painting   Consecration of Young  Samuel by the Priest Eli.   In Islamic legend his  name is Shamwil and sometimes Ishmawil. He  is referred in the Koran (sura 2).  See also:   david; moses; saul; yahweh  Sanaka   (the ancient)   In Hindu mythology,  one of the four mind-born sons of Brahma.  See also:   brahma  Sananda   (joyous)   In Hindu mythology, one  of the four mind-born sons of Brahma.  See also:   brahma  Samuel anoints Saul as king  860   Samuel

=== 페이지 878 ===
Sanatana   (eternal)   In   Hindu   mythology,  one of the four mind-born sons of Brahma.  See also:   brahma  Sanatkumara   (eternally a youth)   In Hindu  mythology, one of the four mind-born sons of  Brahma.  See also:   brahma  Sancus   In ancient Italian mythology, god of  oaths, marriage, treaties, and hospitality identi -  fied by the Romans with Apollo or Jupiter. He  was also called Semo Sancus or Semo Sancus  Dius Fidius.  See also:   apollo; jupiter  Sandalphon   (Sandolphon,   Sandolfon)   (co-  brother)   In Jewish folklore, angel who stands  on earth with his head reaching to the door of  heaven. The American poet Henry Wadsworth  Longfellow, in his poem   Sandalphon,   based on  his reading of   The Traditions of the Jews   by J. P.  Stehelin, writes of how Sandalphon “gathers the  prayers” of the faithful, turns them into flower  “garlands of purple and red,” and presents them  to God. In the poem Sandalphon is described as  “the Angel of Glory” and “the Angel of Prayer.”  sandman   In   European   folklore,   the   man  who puts children to sleep by sprinkling sand  or dust in their eyes and saying “The sandman  has arrived.”  Sang Gala Raja   (black king of the djinn)   In  Islamic mythology, the mightiest djinn in Malay  belief, a combination of the Hindu god Shiva in  his destructive role and an Islamic djinn; One  account says Sang Gala Raja was formed from  drops of blood that shot up to heaven when  Habil and Kabil (analogous to the biblical Abel  and Cain) bit their thumbs. Another account  says Sang Gala Raja was formed from parts of  Sakatimuna, the monster serpent, when he was  slain by the archangel Gabriel. Sang Gala Raja  is believed to live in the heart of the jungle with  his wife, Sang Gadin, and his seven children.  See also:   cain and abel; djinn; gabriel;  sakatimuna; shiva  Sangha   (assembly)   In Buddhism, term used  for the community of Buddha’s disciples. It is  divided into four classes: monks, nuns, laymen,  laywomen. Monks and nuns are of two sorts:  novices, those who have taken   pabbajja   (going  forth), and the fully professed, those who have  upasampada   (completion). Sometimes the term  is used exclusively to refer to the monks and  sometimes it is used to distinguish Buddhists  according to a scheme of spiritual achievement  without regard to their ecclesiastical status.  San Hsien Shan   (the three mountains of the  immortals)   In Chinese mythology, the three  isles of the blessed, which are P’eng-lai, Fang-  chang, and Ying-chou, said to be located in the  Eastern Sea. Once an expedition was sent to  procure from them the plant of immortality.  The expedition failed. The isles are sometimes  called Fu-t (blessed land), being part of the  Happy Land.  Sanjna   (conscience)   In   Hindu   mythology,  the wife of Surya, the sun god. Sanjna is also  called Dyu-mayi (the brilliant) and Maha-virya  (the very powerful).  See also:   surya  Sansenjin   In Japanese mythology, the three  gods of war, portrayed as a man with three  heads and six arms riding on a boar.  Santaramet   In Armenian mythology, god -  dess of the underworld, or a term for the  underworld. Santaramet is derived from the  Persian guardian of the earth, Armaiti, one of  the seven Amesha Spentas.  See also:   amesha spentas  Santes of Monte Fabri, St.   (14th century)  In Christian legend, Franciscan lay brother.  Feast, 6 September. Medieval legend tells how  the saint saw the walls of a church open up.  Santes of Monte Fabri, St.   861

=== 페이지 879 ===
One day, being prevented by his duties from  attending Mass, St. Santes fell on his knees  when he heard the bell announce the elevation  of the Host during Mass. Immediately the four  walls of the church opened so that he might see  the altar and the Host, which was radiant with  light. When the Mass was over, the walls of the  church closed.  San-yu   In Chinese folklore, three friends—  plum,   pine,   and   bamboo—all   symbols   of  longevity,   winter,   and   the   traits   associated  with a gentleman. The three are also sym -  bols of the three religions of China: Taoism,  Confucianism, and Buddhism.  Sarah   (princess)   In the Bible, O.T., the wife  and half sister of Abraham, married to him  before they left Ur. Her legend is told in  Genesis (chaps. 12–23). Sarah was childless  for many years until Yahweh, the Hebrew god,  gave her Isaac in her old age. After his birth  Sarah became jealous of Abraham’s concubine  Hagar and drove her and her son Ishmael into  the desert.  See also:   abraham; isaac; ishmael; yahweh  Šárka   (warrior maiden?)   (14th century   c.e. )  In Czech legend, a warrior maiden who, with  her followers, killed a troop of male warriors.  Šárka swore vengeance on all men when she  discovered that her lover, Ctirad, had been  unfaithful   to   her.   When   Ctirad   was   heard  approaching the forest with a group of his men,  the maidens tied one of their group to a tree, and  she then feigned crying. Seeing her, Ctirad fell  in love with her and freed her. Using a potion,  she made his men drunk, and they fell into a  deep sleep. She blew the hunting horn, and  the other maidens, hidden nearby, rushed out  to kill the men. This legend inspired Bedˇ rich  Smetana’s   Šárka,   part of his cycle of six symphon -  ic poems included in   Má Vlast   (My Country); an  opera by Zdenko Fibich,   Šárka ; and one of the  earliest operas by Leoš Janáˇ cek,   Šárka.  See also:   blánik  Sarpanitum   (silvery bright one)   In Near  Eastern   mythology   (Babylonian-Assyrian),  goddess who presided over the sweet waters,  earth, and wisdom. She was the wife of the  hero god Marduk and daughter of the god Ea.  Often she was merged with Erua, who also was  regarded as the wife of Marduk. The goddess  Eria is believed to be identical with Erua.  See also:   ea; marduk  Sarpedon   (rejoicing   in   a   wooden   ark)   In  Greek   mythology,   hero,   son   of   Zeus   and  Laodamia or Europa; grandson of Bellerophon.  Sarpedon was the commander of the Lycian  contingent of King Priam’s allies during the  Trojan War. At the storming of the Greek camp  he and Glaucus, his cousin, were the first upon  the enemy walls. Sarpedon, however, was killed  by Patroclus. A battle then arose over the pos -  session of Sarpedon’s body. Apollo, commanded  by Zeus, rescued the disfigured corpse from the  Greeks. After washing and anointing it with  ambrosia, Apollo had Sleep and Death carry the  body through the air to Lycia for burial. He was  worshipped as a demigod in Lycia. Sarpedon  appears in Homer’s   Iliad   (books 2, 12, 16).  See also:   ambrosia; apollo; bellerophon;  iliad, the ; patroclus; priam; zeus  Satan   (adversary)   In the Bible, O.T., part of  the heavenly court of God (Job 1:6–7), and in  the N.T. (Rev. 12:7–9), the devil.  The concept of Satan as the devil is not  found in the Old Testament, since his role is  merely as the “adversary” to Job. The Bible  makes   it   clear   that   Satan   is   part   of   God’s  scheme. God grants Satan the power to be Job’s  adversary. His power, however, is only over the  physical aspects of Job, not the spiritual. But  as Judaism developed and came into contact  with the dualism of the Persians, in which the  conflict between the good god, Ahura-Mazda,  and Ahriman, the spirit of evil, was empha -  sized, Satan took on the characteristics of the  evil god of the Persians. By the time of the  New Testament Satan was generally regarded  862   San-yu

=== 페이지 880 ===
Satan in Glory   (William Blake)  Satan   863

=== 페이지 881 ===
as an evil demon or the ruler of demons (Matt.  12:24–30). He not only controls the body but  also has power over spiritual nature. Since early  Christians could not account for God creating  something inherently evil, they concluded that  Satan was a fallen angel, “prince of the world”  (John 12:31) and even “god of this world” (2  Cor. 4:4). In   Paradise Lost   Milton, following  late Jewish sources, makes Satan the monarch  of hell, who rules all of the fallen angels. His  chief   lords,   all   derived   from   Near   Eastern  mythology,   are   Beelzebub,   Chemos,   Tham -  muz, Dagon, Rimmon, and Belial. Satan’s char -  acter, as portrayed by Milton, is one of daring  and ambition and has inspired some critics to  say that Satan is the hero of   Paradise Lost.  In one medieval tale, however, Satan is less  proud or heroic. A man named Theophilus gives  to Satan a sealed parchment in which he prom -  ises to renounce God, the Virgin Mary, and  all of the Church in exchange for gold. Satan  accepts the offer, and Theophilus becomes rich.  Then, realizing what a terrible bargain he has  made with Satan, Theophilus runs to a statue  of the Virgin and begs her to intercede for him.  The Virgin steps down from the pedestal and  places the baby Jesus on the floor. She then asks  Jesus to help the man, but the child remains  mute. Finally, Jesus says, “Why, Mother dear,  do you beg so much for this stinking body of a  man?” The Virgin insists, however, and Satan  is called up from hell to restore the sealed  parchment. The Virgin then gives the letter to  Theophilus and returns to her pedestal. Wil -  liam Blake’s portrayal of Satan in his illustra -  tions for Milton’s   Paradise Lost   and the biblical  Book of Job are well known. In music, Ralph  Vaughn Williams’s ballet   Job,   inspired by Blake’s  illustrations, portrays Satan.  See also:   beelzebub; belial; job; mephis -  topheles; virgin mary  Sati   (Suttee) (the good woman)   In Hindu  mythology, a form of the great goddess, Devi.  Sati   is also the word used to refer to a widow  who, in a practice now outlawed, throws herself  on her husband’s funeral pyre.  See also:   devi  Saturn   (Saturnus) (the seed-sower)   In Roman  mythology, ancient Italian god of harvest and  seedtime; husband of Rhea; father of Jupiter;  identified by the Romans with the Greek Cronus.  Saturn’s reign was regarded as the Golden Age.  The Satyrs and the Passerby   (Gustave Doré)  864   Sati

=== 페이지 882 ===
His temple, consecrated in 497   b.c.e.,   was at  the foot of the Capitoline Hill in Rome, and  under it was the Roman treasury. Throughout  the year, except for his festival, his statue had  woolen ribbons wound around its feet. People  offered sacrifices to Saturn, especially during  the Saturnalia (December 17–23), which was a  festival of great mirth and which eventually was  replaced by Christmas. During the festival, peo -  ple exchanged presents, in particular wax tapers  and dolls. They played many games, one of the  most popular being a game for nuts, symbol  of fruitfulness. In English literature, Chaucer,  Shakespeare, Spenser, and Keats all write about  Saturn.   Gustav   Holst’s   symphonic   suite   The  Planets   also pictures Saturn.  See also:   golden age  satyrs   In Greek mythology, creatures of the  hills and woods, half-men, half-animal; follow -  ers of Dionysus and Pan. Noted for their love  of wine, women, and nymphs, they were called  by the moralistic Hesiod “good for nothing.” In  Roman art they appear with goat legs and horns,  and were later identified by the Christians with  the devil because of their noted sexual appetites.  Satyrs appear in Euripides’   Cyclops,   Ovid’s   Fasti  (book 3), and Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (I.vi.18).  In art Rubens painted a   Nymphs and Satyrs,  while satyrs appear in Botticelli’s   Venus and Mars  and Michelangelo’s statue   Bacchus.  See also:   dionysus; hesiod; nymphs; ovid;  pan  Saul   (desired)   (11th   century   b.c.e. )   In   the  Bible, O.T., the first king of Israel, anointed  by Samuel when the people demanded a king.  His legend is told in 1 Samuel (9–31). Saul was  the son of Kish, a Benjamite. He was chosen  by Samuel because “from his shoulders and  upward he was higher than any of the people.”  He proved himself in battle against the invad -  ing Ammonites and Philistines, but he fell out  with Samuel, usurping Samuel’s priestly func -  tions and acting as priestking. Samuel then  secretly anointed David to be Saul’s successor.  Saul became melancholy because Yahweh, the  Hebrew god, sent him an evil spirit to torment  him. Saul turned against David when he heard  people saying that “Saul hath slain his thou -  sands, and David his ten thousands.” Open  hostilities broke out between David and Saul  during the war with the Philistines. Jonathan,  Saul’s son, sided with David in the dispute. The  night before the last battle, Saul consulted the  Witch of Endor, calling up the spirit of the  dead Samuel, who told him he would die the  next day in battle. The Philistines beheaded  him and his sons, nailing their bodies to the  walls of the temple of Ashtaroth.  William Blake’s   The Witch of Endor Sum -  moning the Shade of Samuel for Saul,   Handel’s  oratorio   Saul,   and Robert Browning’s dramatic  monologue   Saul   all deal with the legend. Rem -  brandt’s   Saul   portrays Saul grasping a javelin  while the young David plays a harp to assuage  Saul’s melancholy. Saul was also the name of St.  Paul before his conversion to Christianity. In  Islam Saul is called Talut.  See also:   david; jonathan; paul, st.; sam -  uel; witch of endor; yahweh  Savitri   (descended from the Sun)   In Hindu  mythology, a name given to a heroine who  brought back her husband from the dead; also  a name for the sun and for the daughter and  wife of Brahma, as well as an alternate name for  Gayatri, the sacred verse used daily by devout  Brahmans.  Saul  Savitri   865

=== 페이지 883 ===
The legend of Savitri is told in the epic  poem   The   Mahabharata.   It   was   popularized  among English-speaking peoples in the last  century by Edwin Arnold’s verse translation of  the episode   Savitri, or Love and Death.   Savitri  was the daughter of King Aswa-pati and was in  love with Satyavan, whom she wanted to marry.  She was told by a holy man, however, that when  she married her husband would die within the  year. Nevertheless, she married Satyavan. One  day when Satyavan went out to cut wood, she  followed him and saw him fall. Standing nearby  was Yama, the god of death. Yama told Savitri  he had come to take her husband to the land  of the dead. Savitri pleaded with Yama, and  the god relented, restoring Satyavan to Savitri.  The tale was used as the basis for a chamber  opera,   Savitri,   by Gustav Holst.  See also:   brahma;   mahabharata, the ; yama  Scaevola, Gaius Mucius   In Roman history  and legend, head of the Mucius family in Rome.  Livy’s   History of Rome   tells of how he went to  the camp of Lars Porsenna, an Etruscan chief -  tain, and, after failing to kill him, laid his right  hand on a burning altar to show his strength  and fortitude; this was supposedly the origin of  his cognomen   Scaevola,   left-handed. The scene  was painted by Tiepolo and Mantegna.  See also:   livy  Schildburg   In Germanic folklore, a city  whose   residents   acquired   a   reputation   for  being fools. One tale tells how they built a  house without windows and tried to carry the  sunlight in. Their legend is told in a 16th-  century work,   The History of the Schildburgers.  The   stories   are   related   to   a   real   city   in  Germany named Schilda or Schildau. In mod -  ern Germany someone who behaves foolishly  is still called a   Schildbürger.  Schild Burghers   Numbskull stories are com -  mon in most societies. In the late 16th century  the Alsatian Jörg Wickram (ca. 1520–1560)  wrote   Fasnacht   (Shrovetide) plays and biblical  tragedies and also produced several works that  may be viewed as forerunners of the modern  novel.   His   most   successful   works,   however,  were none of the above but, rather, collections  of anecdotes and witty tales that might best be  described as entertainment to divert travelers,  much like   The Canterbury Tales.   There were  many similar collections, and   Die Schildbürger  (The Citizens of Schilda), published by another  Alsatian in 1598, has remained the best-known  such work from this period. In the German  world these passive fools in an otherwise demo -  cratic society are residents of a fictitious city on  the slopes of the Schildberg Mountains, near  the city of Torgau in Saxony. Many tales of  their foolish stunts have been told, but perhaps  the most famous is the story of how they built  their city hall.  The citizens of Schilda wanted to erect a  new city hall, and so they went into the forest  to cut down trees for the building. The forest  was a good distance from the city and atop a  mountain. With much effort they carried the  heavy logs down the mountainside. When they  were carrying the last log down, one of the men  stumbled, lost his hold on the tree, and the log  rolled by itself down to the bottom. The bur -  ghers were amazed at the ease and effortless -  ness. Thus they carried all the logs back up the  mountain so that they could let them roll down  again, and the burghers were all delighted with  their cleverness.  See also:   numbskull tale  Scipio   Africanus   Major,   Publius   Cor-  nelius   (236–184   b.c.e. )   In   Roman   history  and legend, hero of the Second Punic War  against Hannibal, whom he defeated at the  battle   of   Zama   in   202   b.c.e.   Livy’s   History  of Rome   (book 26) tells the legend of Scipio  being offered a beautiful captive woman as  a slave and refusing her, restoring her to the  young man she had been pledged to marry.  This legend has often been painted under the  title   Continence of Scipio.   Giulio Romano did a  series of tapestries with that title. Poussin’s and  866   Scaevola, Gaius Mucius

=== 페이지 884 ===
Mantegna’s paintings of the subject are called  Triumph of Scipio.   Scipio Africanus also appears  in Cicero’s   Republic   (book 6) in the famous  Somnium Scipionis   (Scipio’s Dream) episode. In  the dream the hero appears to his grandson and  explains the nature of the universe, including  Pythagoras’s theories of the transmigration of  souls and of immortality. The dream influ -  enced   Consolation of Philosophy   by Boethius, who  in turn influenced the medieval author of the  Roman de la Rose ; Chaucer’s   Parliament of Fowls ;  Shakespeare’s   Troilus and Cressida   and one of  Lorenzo’s speeches in   The Merchant of Venice,  beginning “There’s not the smallest orb which  thou behold’st / But in his motion like an angel  sings”; and Milton’s   Hymn on the Morning of  Christ’s Nativity.  See also:   livy  scorpion   An arachnid with a long, narrow  tail that ends in a venomous sting. Scorpio  is the eighth sign of the Zodiac. In Egyptian  mythology, the scorpion was an attribute of  the evil god Set but was also a protector of the  dead. Seven scorpions accompanied Isis on her  search for her dead husband, Osiris. In one  Egyptian myth Set, in the form of a scorpion,  attempts to kill Horus, the son of Isis and  Osiris, but the gods restore Horus to life. In  European folklore the scorpion is a symbol of  evil and treachery. Jesus (Luke 10:19) gives his  disciples authority and power over scorpions,  which symbolized all that opposed God’s rule  and kingdom. Medieval symbolism chose the  creature, therefore, as a sign of both Judas,  the archbetrayer of Jesus, and the Jews, whom  medieval Christians persecuted.  See also:   horus; isis; judas; osisris; set;  zodica  Scylla and Charybdis   (she who rends and  sucker down)   In Greek mythology, sea mon -  sters. Scylla, according to most accounts, was a  daughter of Phorcys and Ceto, and Charybdis  a daughter of Poseidon and Gaea. Originally  Scylla was a beautiful nymph loved by Glaucus,  a man who was transformed into a god. Scylla,  however, rejected his love and went to Circe  for a magic drug to get rid of Glaucus’s roman -  tic attachment. Instead Circe fell in love with  Glaucus, who rejected her. So Circe poisoned  the   water   in   which   Scylla   bathed,   and   the  nymph was transformed into a sea monster that  devoured ships and men. Opposite Scylla, who  was located in the Strait of Messina, between  Sicily and Italy, was Charybdis. She also once  had another form, that of a woman, but she  had a tremendous appetite. Zeus transformed  her into a monster who swallowed as much  water as she could hold, then spewed it out.  Sailors passing between the two monsters had  to avoid being eaten by the six ravenous dogs’  heads of Scylla or drowning in the whirlpool  of Charybdis. The expression “between Scylla  and   Charybdis”   has   come   to   mean   that   in  avoiding one evil, we fall upon an even greater  one. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11), Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 3), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 13), and  Spenser’s   Faerie Queene   (2.12.9) cite Scylla and  Charybdis.  See also:   aeneid, the ; gaea; glaucus;   odys -  sey, the ; poseidon; zeus  Sebald, St.   (Seward, Siward, Sigward)   (eighth  century)   In   Christian   legend,   patron   of  Nuremberg, Germany. Invoked against cold  weather. Feast, 19 August.  Scylla  Sebald, St.   867

=== 페이지 885 ===
Sebald was the son of a Danish king. He left  England with St. Boniface to convert the Ger -  mans. He traveled through the north of Ger -  many, preaching as a missionary, and settled  at last in Nuremberg. Living in a cell not far  from the city, he would go there daily to teach  the poor, and he was in the habit of stopping  on his way at a hut owned by a cartwright. One  day when it was very cold he found the family  nearly frozen to death in the hut because they  had no fuel. Sebald told them to bring him the  icicles that hung from the roof, and he used  them as fuel for the fire as if they were pieces  of wood. Another day Sebald wanted a fish to  eat (it was a meatless day), and he sent the same  cartwright to buy one in the city. The lord of  Nuremberg had an edict that no one was to buy  fish until his castle storehouse was supplied. As  punishment for having broken the edict, the  cartwright was blinded by the soldiers of the  lord. St. Sebald restored his sight. His church,  the Sebaldskirche in Nuremberg, was begun in  1508 and finished in 1523; it contains a statue  of the saint by Peter Vischer that shows St.  Sebald as an elderly pilgrim warming his feet at  a fire made of icicles. Usually, as in the wood -  cuts of Albrecht Dürer, he is shown holding the  Sebaldskirche, his church, with two towers.  See also:   boniface, st.  Sebastian, Don   (1554–1578)   In Portuguese  history and legend, king killed in the battle of  Alcazar   who,   according   to   legend,   was   not  killed but was spirited away to safety and will  return to help Portugal in time of need. After  his   death   various   pretenders   to   the   throne  appeared. John Dryden’s tragedy   Don Sebastian,  King of Portugal   takes up the legend.  See also:   barbarossa  Sebastian, St.   (man from Sebastia, a city  in Asia Minor)   (third century)   In Christian  legend,   patron   of   armorers,   bookbinders,  burial societies, arrowsmiths, corn chandlers,  gardeners, ironmongers, lead founders, needle  makers, potters, racquet makers, and stone -   St. Sebald   (Albrecht Dürer)  868   Sebastian, Don

=== 페이지 886 ===
masons. Invoked against cattle pest, epilepsy,  enemies of religion, plague, and by the dying.  Feast, 20 January.  The legend of St. Sebastian dates from the  first centuries of Christianity. He was descended  from a noble family and, as commander of a  company of the Praetorian Guards, was very  close to the emperor Diocletian. When it was  discovered that Sebastian was a Christian, the  emperor asked him to renounce his faith, but  Sebastian refused. Then, as   The Golden Legend,  written in the 13th century, tells the tale:  Diocletian was much angry and wroth,  and commanded him to be led to the field  and there to be bounden to a stake for to  be shot at. And the archers shot at him till  he was full of arrows as an urchin is full of  pricks, and thus left him there for dead.  The night after came a Christian woman  [St. Irene] for to take his body and to bury  it, but she found him alive and brought  him to her house, and took charge of him  till he was all whole.  With his health restored Sebastian “stood  upon a step where the emperor should pass by”  and told him to renounce his gods, but Diocletian  had him arrested again, “brought into prison into  his palace,” and stoned to death. St. Sebastian’s  association with arrows and pestilence betrays  him as being a Christian variation of the Greek  god Apollo, who was also invoked against plague,  which he sent by arrows, as shown in Homer’s  Iliad.   In art St. Sebastian is always portrayed as  a young man, which gave artists an opportunity  to display the naked form without the Church  banning the picture as obscene. St. Sebastian is  a favorite subject, therefore, with Italian Renais -  sance painters such as Botticelli, Lotto, Caravag -  gio, and Mantegna. Perhaps one of the most  moving works, however, is by the French artist  Georges de la Tour, showing St. Irene tending  the wounded body with two female attendants.  See   also:   apollo;  golden   legend,   the ; illiad  Sebek   (Sebeq,   Suchos,   Sobek,   Sebak)   In  Egyptian mythology, the crocodile god, called  Suchos by the Greeks. In Egyptian art Sebek  is portrayed as a crocodile-headed man, wear -  ing either a solar disk encircled by a uraeus  or a pair of ram’s horns surmounted by a disk  and a pair of plumes. Frequently, however, the  god appears simply as a crocodile. Sometimes  Sebek is combined with the sun god Ra to form  the composite god Sebek-Ra.  See also:   crocodile; ra; uraeus  Sedna   In   Eskimo   mythology,   great   god -  dess,   queen   of   Adlivun   (those   beneath   us),  the land of the dead under the sea; she is  also called Avilayoq, Nuliajuk, Nerrivik, and  Arnarquagssaq.  Sebek  Sedna   869

=== 페이지 887 ===
In one myth Sedna was once a beautiful  girl who was wooed by many suitors, but she  rejected all of them. Once a fulmar (an arctic  bird of the petrel family) flew over the ice  and sang to her: “Come to me, come into the  land of the birds, where there is never hunger,  where my tent is made of the most beautiful  skins. You shall rest on soft bearskins. My fel -  lows, the fulmars, shall bring you all your heart  desires; their feathers shall clothe you; your  lamp shall always be filled with oil, your pot  with meat.”  Sedna listened to the fulmar and decided  to become his wife. She discovered, however,  that he had lied to her and did not possess all  of the things he claimed. In a year her father  came to visit her, and she told him she wanted  to go home. Angry that his daughter had been  mistreated, he killed the fulmar and took Sedna  away in his boat. The fulmars, companions of  the murdered bird, followed the fleeing couple.  A storm arose, threatening to kill both of them.  Sedna’s father decided to offer Sedna to the birds  as a sacrifice. He flung her overboard, but she  clung to the boat, The cruel father then cut off  the first joints of her fingers. Falling into the sea,  the finger joints were transformed into whales,  the nails turning into whalebones. The second  finger joints fell on the sharp knife and swam  away as seals. When the father cut off the stumps  of her fingers they became ground seals.  In the meantime the storm subsided, and  the fulmars believed Sedna had been drowned.  The father then allowed her to come back into  the boat. But Sedna now hated her father. One  night she called her dogs and had them gnaw  off his feet and hands while he slept. When he  awoke he cursed himself, Sedna, and the dogs.  Suddenly, the earth opened and swallowed the  hut, father, Sedna, and the dogs. Ever since,  Sedna has reigned as queen of Adlivun, the  land of the dead in the sea and has been hostile  to humans.  In a variant myth Sedna refused all suitors  except a dog or a bird. Her enraged parents cast  Sedna, fingerless, into the sea, where she now  reigns as queen of the dead. Another variant  says Sedna was a girl who ate so much that her  parents were in despair. Once she even started to  eat their arms and legs. They awoke and threw  her into the sea, first cutting off her fingers.  As   goddess   of   sea   creatures,   Sedna   is  invoked for success in hunting. When taboos  are broken, the shaman is called and goes into  a trance, during which it is believed that his  spirit flies to Sedna’s land, where he attempts  to appease the goddess’s anger.  When the Danish explorer Knud Rasmus -  sen asked one Eskimo about the goddess he  was told: “We do not believe, we only fear.  And most of all we fear Nuliajuk [Sedna].   .   .   .  Nuliajuk is the name we give to the Mother of  Beasts. All the game we have comes from her;  from her comes all the caribou, all the foxes,  the birds and fishes.”  See also:   great goddess; maiden without  hands  seid   In Norse mythology a form of magic  or divination, frequently associated with Odin,  but also as practiced by women. The   Prose Edda  gives a description of seid as practiced by Odin:  Odin knew that art called seid, which the  greatest power accompanied, and he car -  ried it out himself. Through it he could  determine the fates of men and things yet to  happen, and also arrange death or bad luck  or ill health for people, and take the mind  or strength of people and give it to others.  Gullveig and Freyja practiced seid, and it  may have been Freyja who brought seid to the  Aesir, perhaps causing the Aesir-Vanir War.  In one saga, famine has overcome a certain  region, and a woman practicing seid is asked to  forecast its duration. She climbs on a platform,  sings songs, and makes contacts with the spir -  its. She predicts a quick end to the famine and  a prosperous future for those suffering.  See also:   aesir-vanir war; freyja;   prose  edda  870   seid

=== 페이지 888 ===
Seker   (Sacharis, Seger, Sokar, Solare, Sokaris)  In   Egyptian   mythology,   death   god   of   the  necropolis of Memphis. Originally, Seker may  have been a vegetation god. Later he was com -  bined with Osiris, the god of the dead. The two  were also combined with the craft god Ptah to  form the god Ptah-Seker-Osiris. Ptah provided  new bodies in which the souls of the righteous  were to live, thus symbolizing the addition  of creative power (Ptah) to death (Seker and  Osiris). Egyptian art usually portrayed Seker as  a hawkheaded mummy.  See also:   osiris; ptah  Sekhet-Aaru   (field of the reeds)   In Egyptian  mythology, a paradise, the name originally given  to the island of the delta where the blessed souls  of the dead lived and saw the sun god Ra each  day. The land was filled with wheat as high as  five cubits and barley as high as seven.  See also:   ra  Selene   (moon)   In Greek mythology, ancient  moon goddess; daughter of the Titan Hyperion  and Theia; sister of Helios and Eos. Selene  was a beautiful woman with long wings and  a golden diadem that shed a mild light. She  rode in a chariot drawn by two white horses.  In later Greek and Roman mythology Selene  was   identified   with   Artemis,   Luna,   Hecate,  and Persephone. Selene was also known by her  epithet, Phoebe (bright moon). She appears  riding in her chariot on the east pediment of  the Parthenon.  See also:   artemis; hecate; helios; hyper -  ion; luna; persephone; titans  Semargl   (family, barley)   In Slavic mythol -  ogy, god of the family and of barley; wor -  shipped among the Russians. He appears in  The Lay of Igor’s Army,   and some scholars  believe him to have been invented by the  author of that work. There is some disagree -  ment as to whether Semargl is one god or two  (known as Sem and Rgl).  See also:   lay of igor’s army, the  Semele   In   Greek   mythology,   daughter   of  Cadmus,   king   of   Thebes,   and   Harmonia,  mother of Dionysus by Zeus. Zeus fell in love  with Semele and often visited her. Hera, ever  jealous of her husband’s escapades, took the  form of Semele’s nurse, Beroe, and convinced  the girl to ask Zeus to show himself to her in all  his godlike splendor. Zeus agreed to Semele’s  wish and appeared amid thunder and light -  ning. Semele was consumed by flames. Before  she died she gave birth to a six month’s child,  Dionysus, whom Zeus saved from the flames  and hid in his thigh until it was time for the  child to be born. When Dionysus was born he  raised his dead mother and placed her in the  heavens under the name Thyone. Semele is  believed to be a form of Selene or Zemelo, a  Phrygian earth goddess. She is cited in Homer’s  Iliad   (book 14), Euripides’   The Bacchae,   and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 3) and appears in  Handel’s secular oratorio   Semele   (1744).   Jupiter  and Semele   was painted by Tintoretto.  See also:   dionysus; hera;   iliad, the ; ovid  Semiramis   In   Near   Eastern   mythology,  queen   of   Assyria;   daughter   of   the   goddess  Derceto. Semiramis is known chiefly as the  murderer of her second husband, King Ninus  of Assyria, as well as the builder of many great  cities. As a murderess she appears in Rossini’s  opera   Semiramide   (1823). She was famous for  her beauty and wealth.  Semones   (sowers)   In Roman mythology, a  name for lesser gods and goddesses, such as Pan,  Janus and Priapus, as well as deified heroes.  See also:   janus; pan; priapus  Seng-don-ma   In   Tibetan   Buddhism,   a  woman, often portrayed with the face of a lion,  who stamps out human ignorance.  Sennacherib   (Sin, the mood god, has com -  pensated me for [the loss of my] brothers)  (704–681   b.c.e. )   In Near Eastern history and  legend,   king   of   Assyria   who   captured   and  Sennacherib   871

=== 페이지 889 ===
destroyed Babylon. He conquered Jerusalem  during the days of Hezekiah, but at night,  according   to   the   Old   Testament   (2   Kings  19:35), “the angel of the Lord went out, and  smote in the camp the Assyrians an hundred  four-score and five thousand.” Lord Byron’s  poem   The Destruction of Sennacherib   was set for  chorus and orchestra by Modest Mussorgsky.  Sennadius, Dream of   In Christian legend,  a dream recorded by St. Augustine in one of his  epistles to prove that man has two natures.  Sennadius   was   a   physician   who   did   not  believe in the duality of man’s nature and con -  sequently in a future life. One night an angel  appeared to him in a dream and asked him to  follow. The angel took Sennadius to the confines  of a city, where he was “ravished with celestial  music” that the angel told him came from the  voices of perfect spirits. Sennadius thought no  more about the dream when he awoke. Some -  time afterward the angel appeared to him again,  recalled to him the memory of the former visit,  and then asked him if the vision had occurred  while Sennadius was awake or during sleep.  Sennadius replied, “During sleep.”  “Just so,” said the angel. “What you saw and  heard was not by your bodily senses then, for  your eyes and ears were closed in sleep.”  “True,” said the physician.  “Then,” continued the angel, “with what eyes  did you see, and with what ears did your hear?”  Sennadius could not answer. The angel said,  “It must be evident, if you see when your bodily  eyes are shut and hear when your bodily ears are  closed in sleep, that you must have other eyes  and ears beside those of your material body.  When, therefore, your body sleeps, that other  something may be awake. When your body  dies, that other something may live on.”  See also:   augustine, st.  seraphim   (Seraph,   singular)   (burning,  glowing)   In the Bible, O.T.,the highest of the  nine choirs of angels, stemming from demonic  spirits in Babylonian mythology. When the  prophet Isaiah (Isa. 6:2–3) describes the throne  of Yahweh, the Hebrew god, he says that above  it “stood the seraphims: each one had six wings;  with twain he covered his face, and with twain  he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly.  And one cried unto another and said, Holy,  holy, holy is the Lord of hosts: the whole earth  is full of his glory.” Isaiah’s seraphim, from the  root “to burn,” are believed to come from the  “fiery serpents” mentioned in Numbers (21:6).  From early Christian times, however, the sera -  phim were made into a category of angels and  are mentioned in the Preface to the Roman  Mass as well as in the great hymn Te Deum,  composed by Niceta of Remesiana, where they  repeat the phrase from Isaiah.  See also:   cherubim; isaiah; yahweh  Serapion the Sinonite, St.   (ardent?)   (fourth  century)   In Christian legend, a saint known for  his generosity not only in giving away his goods  to the poor but in selling himself several times  for the benefit of the poor. Feast, 2 March.  The first time, according to Alban Butler’s  account in his   Lives of the Saints,   he sold him -  self to a comedian for 20 pieces of silver. The  comedian was a pagan, but Serapion converted  him to Christianity and also persuaded him to  leave the stage (considered an evil profession  by the early Church). The comedian freed  Serapion and offered him 20 pieces of silver,  which the saint refused. Next he sold himself to  relieve a poor widow. After having stayed with  his master for the allotted time he was again  given his liberty as well as a cloak, a tunic, an  undergarment, and a copy of the Gospels. He  had “scarce gone from the door, when he gave  his cloak to one poor man, and his tunic to  another.” A stranger came up and asked him  why he was out in the cold without a cloak.  Had he been robbed? Who caused his condi -  tion? “This book,” replied Serapion, showing  the stranger the Gospels. The rest of his life  was devoted to selling himself to help the poor.  Serapion “at length died in Egypt, in a desert,  at the age of sixty years.”  872   Sennadius, Dream of

=== 페이지 890 ===
Serapis   In Egyptian mythology, Greek name  for the composite god made up of the god  Osiris, called Ser in Egyptian, and the sacred  bull of Memphis, Apis. The date of the intro -  duction of the cult of Serapis is disputed by  scholars.   Some   believe   it   was   the   artificial  creation of either Ptolemy I or Ptolemy II,  who used the cult of Serapis in an attempt  to blend the existing Egyptian concepts with  those of the Greeks who settled in Egypt after  the conquest by Alexander the Great. It was an  attempt to give both segments of the popula -  tion a common religious heritage. Serapis was  worshipped by Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians  at a common shrine. In the Roman Empire  his worship, along with that of Isis, rivaled all  other Mediterranean cults. In art Serapis was  portrayed as a bull-headed man wearing a solar  disk and the uraeus between his horns and  holding symbols associated with Osiris.  See also:   alexander the great; apis; isis;  osiris; uraeus  Serpent and the File, Th e   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world.  In the course of its wanderings a serpent  came into an armorer’s shop. As he glided over  the floor, he felt his skin pricked by a file lying  there. In a rage he turned on it and tried to dart  his fangs into it. However, he could do no harm  to the heavy iron and gave up his anger.  Moral:   It’s useless to attack the insensible.  The fable is told in the Arabic fables of  Lôqman. In his version, however, the snake’s  part is taken by a cat. R. L. Stevenson quotes  the fable in his novel   The Master of Ballantrae.  See also:   aesopic fables  Serqet   (Selket, Selqet, Selquet)   In Egyptian  mythology, scorpion goddess. Serqet protected  the body of the dead. She was often seen on the  walls of tombs with winged arms outstretched  in a protective gesture. She was believed to  have special province over the entrails of the  deceased. Serqet was a companion of the god -  dess isis in her wanderings, and it was said that  those who worshipped isis were never stung  by a scorpion. Egyptian art portrays Serqet as  a woman with a scorpion on her head or as a  scorpion with the head of a woman.  See also:   isis; scorpion  Set   (Seth, Sethi, Sit, Sut, Sutekh)   In Egyptian  mythology, the evil god; brother of Osiris, Isis,  and Nephthys; called Typhon by the Greeks. Aesop’s The Serpent and the File  Serqet  Set   873

=== 페이지 891 ===
He   murdered   his   brother,   Osiris,   who   was  avenged by Horus, the son of Osiris. Seth  frequently serves as a catalyst, his thoughtless  actions leading to favorable outcomes, such as  Osiris becoming the ruler of the underworld.  He was associated with the dangerous aspects  of the desert, sandstorms, and flash floods.  The worship of Set was one of the oldest  cults of Egypt. Originally, he was a beneficent  god of Upper Egypt, whose realm was the  abode of the blessed dead, where he performed  friendly offices for the deceased. When the fol -  lowers of Horus (the elder), the supreme god of  Lower Egypt, conquered the followers of Set,  Set’s place in the Egyptian pantheon of gods  fell into disrepute, and eventually the priests  of Horus declared Set a god of the unclean, an  enemy of all other gods, and ordered all of his  images destroyed.  Set was the archenemy of the sun god, and  almost all allusions and legends pertaining to  him reflect the battles he waged against the sun.  In the earliest and simplest form of the myth,  Set represented the cosmic opposition of dark -  ness and light. In a later form of the myth, Set  is the antagonist of the sun god Ra and seeks,  in the form of the monstrous serpent Apophis,  to prevent him from appearing in the east daily.  The result was always the same. Apophis would  be annihilated by the burning heat of Ra, and  Set, who could renew himself daily, would col -  lect his noxious cohort and ready himself for the  next night’s battle against the sunrise.  In the most famous and complex version  of the myth, Set is the murderer and dismem -  berer of his brother, Osiris, who was sometimes  called his twin brother. He pursued and perse -  cuted Osiris’s widow, Isis, who was also his own  sister. He also persecuted Isis and Osiris’s child  Horus. Later Horus was called on to avenge  his father’s death, and in a series of battles he  defeated Set and would have destroyed him if  it had not been for the interference of Isis, who  took pity on her brother and spared him.  The Egyptians viewed the battle between  Set and Horus as the ultimate victory of good  over evil. Yet according to some interpreta -  tions, in the sphere of the eternal, where there  is no duality, Set and Horus are one; that is,  death and life, darkness and light are one. In  Egyptian religion this has been referred to as  “the secret of the two partners,” reflecting the  hidden understanding of the two combatant  gods. Set, representing strife, is perennially  subdued but never destroyed by Horus, rep -  resenting peace. In the end there is reconcilia -  tion. The pharaoh who was sometimes known  as the Two Lords was identified with both of  these gods as an inseparable pair.  As the great antagonist of light, Set was  frequently symbolized by the black boar, whose  emblem was the primeval knife, the instru -  ment of dismemberment and death. His female  counterpart was his sister Nephthys, who was  herself a goddess of darkness and decay.  In Egyptian art Set is usually portrayed as  a man with the head of a fantastic beast with  pointed muzzle and high, square ears. This  unidentifiable beast has been commonly called  the Typhonian animal, Typhon being the god  Set  874   Set

=== 페이지 892 ===
with whom the Greeks identified Set. Some -  times Set is portrayed with horns, which made  him the ideal image for the devil in Egyptian  Christianity. Other animals associated with Set  were the antelope, the crocodile, and the ass.  Set was sometimes said to have a mane  of red hair, and Plutarch writes in   Isis and  Osiris   that an ass was thrown down a precipice  because the animal bore a resemblance to Set  in its redness. Persons who had red complex -  ions were often treated ignominiously.  See also:   antelope; apophis; ass; croco -  dile; horus; isis; mummy; nephthys; osiris;  two brothers, tale of; typhon  Seven Kings of Rome   In Roman history  and legend, they are Romulus, Numa Pompilius,  Tullus   Hostilius,   Ancus   Martius,   Tarquinius  Priscus,   Servius   Tullius,   and   Tarquinius  Superbus.  Seven Sages of Greece   In Greek history and  legend, seven men noted for their wisdom. They  are Thales of Miletus (seventh century   b.c.e. ),  who believed the material basis for the world was  water and was noted for his absentmindedness,  as when he fell down a well while not paying  attention; Solon of Athens (c. 640–c. 560   b.c.e. ),  a lawmaker noted for his remark to Croesus,  whom he met in Lydia, that no man could be  said to have lived a happy life until he was dead;  Bias of Priene; Chilo Sparta, who brought back  the bones of Orestes; Cleobulus of Rhodes;  Periander of Corinth (c. 625–585   b.c.e. ), patron  of the arts who dedicated the Chest of Cypselus  at Olympia, which was decorated with gold and  ivory reliefs of scenes from Greek mythology, his  court being the setting of Plutarch’s   Symposium of  the Seven Sages ; and Pittacus of Mytilene (c. 650–  570   b.c.e. ), a moderate democratic reformer.  See also:   orestes  Seven Sleepers of Ephesus, The   Legend  in   both   Christian   and   Islamic   folklore.   In  Islamic folklore the seven are called   Ashab  al-Kahf   (the people of the cave). They are  seven youths who fled to a cave to escape the  Decian persecution (250) for being Christian.  They fell asleep, awoke some 200 years later,  and died.  St. Gregory of Tours, writing in   De Gloria  Martyrum   in the sixth century, gives one Chris -  tian version of the legend. According to his  account, seven noble youths in the household  of the emperor Decian fled the court when  the emperor began to persecute Christians.  They entered a cave and fell asleep. Some 230  years later the cave was opened, and the youths  awoke; they died soon afterward. Their bod -  ies were buried in a large coffin in St. Victor’s  Church in Marseilles. Their names were Con -  stantine, Dionysius, John, Maximian, Malchus,  Martinian, and Serapion.  The Islamic account is found in the Koran  (Sura 18) and differs from the Christian account.  In it a dog, Katmir, not directly named in the  sacred text, “lay .   .   . with paws outstretched”  outside the entry to the cave. (Katmir is one of  the 10 animals admitted to Paradise in Islamic  belief.) After 309 years the sleepers awoke and  sent one of their number into the town to buy  bread. As to what happened later the Koran is  silent, though various other Islamic accounts  fill in the gaps in the tale.  Goethe’s poem   The Seven Sleepers of Ephesus  combines both Christian and Islamic accounts,  ending with the eight of them (Goethe counts  the dog):  Thenceforth from the world were  sundered.  The most blessed Angel Gabriel  By the will of God Almighty,  Walling up the cave for ever, Led them  unto Paradise.  The Koranic account of the legend was used  by Taufig al-Hakim in his play   Ashab al-Kahf.  The legend seems to have arisen from taking  the expression “fell asleep in the Lord” literally,  and not, as was meant, having died. Though  many Christian writers through the ages have  Seven Sleepers of Ephesus, The   875

=== 페이지 893 ===
dismissed the legend, the Feast of the Seven  Sleepers is celebrated on 27 July.  The number seven is associated with other  medieval “sleepers.” Every seven years Bar -  barossa turns over and Ogier the Dane thun -  ders with his mace on the floor, and Tannhäuser  spent seven years beneath the earth in magical  enthrallment.  See also:   koran, the  Seven   Wonders   of   the   World   In   the  ancient Greco-Roman world they were the  Pyramids of Egypt, the Hanging Gardens of  Babylon, the Tomb of Mausolus, the Temple of  Diana of Ephesus (Artemision), the Colossus  of Rhodes, the Statue of Zeus by Phidias, and  the Tower of Pharos at Alexandria. During  the Christian Middle Ages another seven were  added. They were the Coliseum (amphithe -  ater) of Rome, the Catacombs of Alexandria,  the   Great   Wall   of   China,   Stonehenge,   the  Leaning Tower of Pisa, the Porcelain Tower  of Nankin, and the Mosque of St. Sophia at  Constantinople (now museum of Hagia Sophia  at Istanbul).  See also:   colossus of rhodes; diana; zeus  Seven Swabians   The story of the Seven  Swabians is known today as number 119 in the  Household Tales   of the Brothers Grimm, but it  is included here as an example of late medieval  folk literature. The story is found in a song  by Hans Sachs (1494–1576) from 1545 and  from a collection by Hans Wilhelm Kirchhoff  (1525–1603) in his book   Wendunmuth   (Feeling  Better) of 1563. The story is quite similar to  the numbskull stories of the citizens of Schilda,  as well as the mocking ones still told today  about other individuals and groups.  Once   there   were   seven   Swabians   who  wanted very much to be great heroes and wan -  der about in the entire world. So that they had  a good weapon to protect themselves, they had  a very long spear made. Then they lined up in a  The Great Pyramid at Giza, one of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world  876   Seven Wonders of the World

=== 페이지 894 ===
row, and all seven grabbed onto the spear. The  first one was Herr Schulz, called the Allgäuer  because he came from the Allgäu. Another  one they called Seehas because he was born on  Lake Constance. Each one had a nickname.  With their spear in hand, they now wan -  dered throughout the world. After many adven -  tures they arrived back at Lake Constance, for  they had heard that a very dangerous monster  was   living   there.   They   wanted   to   conquer  it. They came to the forest where the beast  was supposed to be. At the edge of the forest  there was a rabbit sitting up on its hind legs.  The brave Swabians were very afraid, for they  thought that they had located the monster.  They talked over whether they should continue  or flee. They almost got into a fight because  those who were at the back of the row were for  continuing, while those up front were ready to  turn tail and run away.  After quite some time the man from the  Allgäu took heart and moved forward toward  the monster. When fear overcame him, he  cried out: “Hau, hauhau, hurlehau!” The rabbit  was frighted by this and ran away, as fast as he  could. Then the Allgäuer called out in joy:  “Potz, Veitli, look, look, what is that? The  monster is a rabbit!”  But the other one cried: “What, a rabbit?  The beast was as big as a calf!” “No, an animal  like a mastodon!” “Something like an elephant!”  But since the monster had already fled, the  Seven Swabians went into the church to thank  God for their victory. And after that they went  to the inn so that with wine they could recover  from their adventure.  See also:   grimm brothers; sachs, hans;  schild burghers  Shahapet   In Armenian mythology, serpent  spirit that appeared as both a man and a serpent.  Generally,   the   Shahapet,   who   often   inhab -  ited vine stocks and olive trees, was a benefi -  cent spirit unless angered. Agathangelos, the  Christian historian of Armenia in ancient times,  calls Christ the Shahapet of the graveyards.  Shah Namah   (book of kings)   Persian epic  poem by Firdusi, completed in 1010, narrating  the mythical and legendary history of Iran from  the days of Gayomart, its first king, to the fall  of the Sassanian dynasty in 641   c.e.   under the  impact of Islam. The epic consists of more than  50,000 couplets, divided into 50 chapters.  Firdusi based his poem on various collec -  tions of Persian history and lore. Yezdjird, the  last Sassanian king, had collected all of the  histories and traditions connected with Persia  and had them bound into a book known as  Bustan-Namah.   After the Islamic conquest of  Persia, additional material was added to the  book, bringing it up to the death of Yezdjird.  Mahmud of Ghazna (997–1030), the king of  Persia, wished the prose chronicle to be turned  into a verse epic. From it he selected seven  tales, which he distributed among seven poets  of the court, so that he might pick which was to  complete the massive work.  Dagiqi, a poet, was given the tale of Rus -  tum and Sohrab, two of the main heroes in the  work. The king was so pleased with the poet’s  treatment of the tale that Dagiqi was commis -  sioned to complete the work. In the meantime  Dagiqi had introduced another poet, Abu’l-  Qasim Mansur, to the court, and he so capti -  vated the king that the king changed the poet’s  name to Firdusi (paradise). The legend relates  that the king said, “You have made my court as  resplendent as   firdusi. ”  Dagiqi died in 980, and the task of com -  pleting the epic was given to Firdusi. He was  promised 1,000 gold pieces for every 1,000  couplets of the work. Firdusi refused payment  until the work was completed. When it was  completed, the king’s prime minister, Hasan  Meymendi, a conceited favorite of the king  who hated the poet, had silver substituted for  the gold. According to legend, Firdusi gave  away one-third of the silver payment to the  slave who brought it.  “The sultan shall know,” he said, “that I did  not bestow the labor of 30 years on a work to  be rewarded by silver.”  Shah Namah   877

=== 페이지 895 ===
In his anger the poet wrote an insulting  poem against the king and then, thinking it best  to move, fled his city. He finally died in Tus.  Again according to legend, when the king  ultimately discovered what his prime minister  had done, changing the gold payment for a  silver one, he had the gold sent, but it was too  late; the poet had died. The money was finally  used by the family to build a stone embank -  ment in the city of Firdusi, a dream he had held  all his life.  Among the heroes treated in the epic are  Bahram Gur, the hero king and the “great  hunter”; Jemshid, a culture hero and proud  king; Faridun, the hero who defeats the evil  king Zahhak; Gayomart, the first king and  primeval man; Husheng, a king, culture hero,  and discoverer of fire; Kavah, a blacksmith who  refused to sacrifice his children to the evil Zah -  hak; Minuchihr, a hero king who came to the  throne on the death of the great hero Faridun;  Mirtas, the good king who was the father of  Zahhak, the evil king; Rustum, the great hero  of the poem, father of Sohrab, whom he acci -  dentally killed in battle; Tahumers, a king who  was a slayer of demons; and Zal.  See also:   bahram gur;   bustan, the ; gayo -  mart; husheng; jemshid; kavah; minuchihr;  sohrab; thaumers; zahhak; zal  shaitans   (sayatin)   In Islamic mythology, evil  spirits more dangerous than the djinn. Allah  created Al-Shaitan, perhaps another name for  Iblis, the devil, who then produced eggs from  which other demons were hatched. In a variant  myth Allah not only created Al-Shaitan but a  wife for him, who then produced three eggs as  their offspring. The children are all ugly, hav -  ing hoofed feet. Shaitans are even more ugly  in their eating habits. They like excrement and  other dirt and waste and prefer the shade to  sunlight. It is believed that every person has a  personal shaitan, or demon, just as he has a per -  sonal guardian angel. Sometimes the shaitan is  considered the muse of poetic inspiration.  See also:   allah; djinn; iblis; malec  Shakuntala   (Sakuntala,   Sakoontala)   (bird  protected)   In Hindu mythology, a heroine in  love with King Dushyanta.  Shakuntala was born in a forest and lived  there on the food supplied to her by birds until  she was found by the sage Kanwa. The sage  brought her up in his hermitage as his daugh -  ter. One day she was seen by King Dushyanta,  who immediately fell in love with her. He  wooed her, and she accepted him, not in a mar -  riage but in a simple declaration of mutual love.  On leaving her to return to his city, he gave her  a ring as a pledge of their love.  When later the sage Dur-vasas came to  visit Kanwa, Shakuntala was so absorbed in  thoughts about King Dushyanta that she paid  little attention to the guest. Dur-vasas became  so angry that he cursed Shakuntala, saying she  would be forgotten by Dushyanta. Relenting  later from the harshness of his curse, Dur-vasas  said the curse would be removed as soon as King  Dushyanta saw the ring he had give Shakuntala  as a token of love. Pregnant, Shakuntala, set  off to see King Dushyanta. Before leaving she  bathed and lost the ring. When she reached  the palace, Dushyanta did not recognize her,  fulfilling the curse. She was taken back to the  forest, where a son, Bharata, was born. Later  the ring was found in a fish by a fisherman and  brought to the king. He recognized it and then  accepted Shakuntala and his son.  Shakuntala forms the basis for the best-  known play by the Indian playwright Kali -  dasa, titled after the heroine. The work was  made known to the English-speaking world  through a translation by Sir William Jones  in 1789. The German poet Goethe wrote of  the drama:  Wouldst thou the young year’s blossoms  and  the fruits of its decline,  And all by which the soul is charmed,  enraptured, fasted, fed?  Wouldst thou the earth and heaven itself  in one sole name combine?  878   shaitans

=== 페이지 896 ===
I name thee, O Shakuntala, and all at  once is said.  (Eastwich translation)  See also:   bharata  Shamash   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Babylonian-Assyrian),   sun   god,   (originally  female) god of justice and healing, his consort  was the goddess Aa, and his attendants were  Kittu (truth) and Mesharu (righteousness). He  appears in the epic poem   Gilgamesh   as a friend  of the hero. He is portrayed in the relief atop  the stele of Hammurabi in the Louvre in Paris  as the divine source and justification for the laws  that were codified under Hammurabi and given  to his subjects to obey. Among his epithets were  Babbar (shiner) and Ma-banda-anna (sky ship).  See also:   aa; gilgamesh  Shamba   In African legend, the 93rd chief of  the Bakongo of Congo. It is not at all clear what  the rulers before him were like, but he is said to  have been a very wise, peaceful, and innovative  man. From childhood he had a great desire to  travel. He felt that travel was the best teacher, and  over the years he visited many countries. From  each place he learned about new things, including  embroidery, tobacco, weaving, and a game called  Mankala. He forbade the use of lethal weapons,  rarely killed anyone, and under all conditions  spared the lives of women and children. As a  judge he showed great wisdom in both criminal  and civil cases. Shamba once rebuked a person  for offering hearsay evidence at court, saying that  only those who have actually seen something  with their own eyes have the right to speak.  Shango   In   African   mythology   (Yoruba   of  southwestern Nigeria), thunder god; husband  of Oya, goddess of the Niger River, and Oshun,  goddess of the Oshun River. Among his ser -  vants were the wind, Afefe, and the rainbow,  Oshun Mare.  Shango was once a mortal; he served as  fourth king of his people. A powerful ruler, he  was feared because of his ability to breathe fire  from his mouth. But two of his political aides  challenged his authority. Shango tried to have  the two men fight with each other, thus diverting  their anger from him. He succeeded in having  one kill the other, but the victor then turned on  Shango, trying to kill him. Shango was forced to  flee, along with his wife and faithful followers.  They wandered about until they arrived at Koso,  where he built a palace. A lightning storm came  and destroyed the palace, killing all his wives and  children. Shango despaired and hanged him -  self from a tree. Shango’s enemies made fun of  his remaining followers, but they continued to  honor their dead ruler, praying that fire would  consume Shango’s enemies. Then their prayers  seemed   to   be   answered,   for   numerous   fires  began to spread and destroy many houses. Fear  gripped Shango’s enemies, who now believed  he had not died but had disappeared into the  woods and later ascended to the sky. A temple  was erected in Shango’s honor at Koso. Today  the ram is sacred to the Yoruba for its bellow,  which is said to be the noise of Shango’s thunder.  Shango is also known as Jakuta (stone thrower)  and Oba Koso (the king does not hang), in refer -  ence to his death and rebirth.  See also:   eshu; oshun  Shang-Ti   (the emperor above)   In Chinese  mythology, a sky god, also worshipped as T’ien  (sky or heavenly god). When the Jesuits came  to China in the 17th century, they created the  term T’ien Chu (heavenly or sky lord) to des -  ignate the Christian God.  Shan T’ao   (283–205   b.c.e. )   In Chinese leg -  end,   one   of   the   seven   Chu-lin   Ch’i-Hsien  (Seven Immortals). He is the patron of rising  talent, portrayed as an old man with a staff. In  Japanese legend he is called Santo.  See also:   chu-lin ch’i-hsien  shape-shifter   The   transformation   of   the  body, from human to animal or from animal to  human. This is a common motif in most narra -  shape-shifter   879

=== 페이지 897 ===
tive genres, fables, legends, myths, and epics. In  some cases the transformation is an example of  metempsychosis, “soul travel,” but in most cases  the transformation is more literal. By the late  Middle Ages, shape-shifting was looked upon  as devilish sorcery, but it had not always been  that way, as one can see in tale type 301 “The  Three Stolen Princesses,” in which the hero  is of supernatural origin, “the son of a bear.”  This human/ animal relationship has been and  still is evident in some names, particularly in  the Germanic world. The names Bern, Bernd,  Bjarki, Bera, and Björn all are related to the  bear, or at least suggest ursine origins. Other  examples are Arthur (whose name may have its  origin from the Celtic word   airth,   “bear”), or  the Old English Beowulf (whose name might  be a kenning for Wolf of the Bees). In modern  Germany the name Wolfgang is quite common,  as are some older names like Arnulf, which like  Beowulf may suggest canine affinities. Many of  the figures in old Norse sagas have names like  berserkir   (berserks)   or   ulfhednar   (wolf-cloak).  Animals that indicate or suggest travel were  also common, such as birds and marine animals.  The   werewolf   is   perhaps   the   most   obvious  shape-shifter still known in modern society.  See also:   beowulf; berserk; werewolf  Shatarupa   (the hundred-formed)   In Hindu  mythology,   daughter   and   wife   of   the   god  Brahma, goddess of wisdom and science, moth -  er of the sacred Vedas. In Indian art Shatarupa  is often portrayed seated on a lotus playing  a type of banjo, or with four arms holding a  book of palm leaves representing learning; with  a string of pearls called Sivamala (Shiva’s gar -  land), which serves as a rosary; and with a rose,  which she presents to her husband, Brahma.  Shatarupa is also known as Savitri (descended  from the sun); Sarasvati (flowing), referring to  her earlier role as river goddess; Vach (speech),  as   goddess   of   speech;   Brahami,   as   wife   of  Brahma; and Gayatri (song), the sacred verse  recited daily by Brahmans.  See also:   brahma; vedas  shatulka   (Russian   lacquered   boxes)   Lac -  quered   miniature   boxes   painted   with   motifs  from oral tales, myths, legends, and folktales by  Shatulka   (photo by Susan Dow)  880   Shatarupa

=== 페이지 898 ===
such Russian artists as Palekh, Mstera, Kholui,  and Fedoskino. The tradition of lacquer painting  came to Russia from Western countries such as  Germany, England, France, and Holland in the  17th century. Since the early 19th century there  have been many Russian factories that produce  lacquered articles painted in their own style.  Perhaps the best known story depicted is that of  the Firebird, but such tales as the Frog Prince are  also depicted on the covers of the boxes.  See also:   firebird; frog  Shayast la-Shavast   (the proper and improper)  A   ritual   text   in   Zoroastrian   belief,   written  in Pahlavi, a southwestern dialect of Middle  Persian; it deals with sin and impurity and gives  details on ceremonies. It often quotes from the  sacred book, the Avesta ,   as does the   Denkard,  of which large sections summarize the contents  of the Avesta .  See also:   avesta; zarathustra  shen   (divine, spirit, god)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, a shen refers to a divinity, spirit, god, or  deified mortal. The Japanese word   Kami   is  written with the Chinese character   shen.  See also:   kami  Shen   Nung   (divine   farmer)   In   Chinese  mythology,   a   culture   hero,   the   ox-headed  divine farmer, second of the Five Sovereigns.  He taught men the art of agriculture as well as  the use of healing drugs, being honored as the  god of medicine. Shen Nung is also the god  of burning wind. During his reign the people  were saved by the intervention of Ch’ih Sung-  tzu (red-pine sow), the lord of rain.  See also:   shen  Sheol   (pit)   In the Bible, O.T., the place of the  dead, under the earth, translated as hell in the  King James Version of the Bible. The Revised  Standard Version often uses Sheol or Hades.  It is not a place of punishment. All of the dead,  good and bad, reside there as shadows.  See also:   hades  Shesha   (remainder)   In Hindu mythology, a  serpent king of the Nagas. Shesha serves as the  couch of Vishnu when the god sleeps during  the intervals of creation. At the end of each  age Shesha vomits fire, which destroys all cre -  ation. He is the son of Kadru, who mothered a  thousand powerful many-headed serpents, and  brother of Manasa-devi, who has special power  in counteracting poison. Shesha is also called  Mahoraga (great serpent) or Ananta (endless)  as a symbol of eternity. He is sometimes identi -  fied with the serpent king Vasuki.  See also:   nagas; vishnu  Shichi Fukujin   In Japanese Shinto mythol -  ogy, the seven gods of good luck and fortune.  They are Ebisu, the god of daily food; Daikoku,  god of wealth; Bishamon, war god and god of  riches; Benten, goddess of love, beauty, music  and other arts; Hotei, the so-called “Laughing  Buddha”; Jorojin, the god of longevity and  wisdom; and Fuku-roku-ju, the god of fortune.  All of these gods are borrowed from Chinese  mythology.  See also:   benten; ebisu; daikoku; hotei  Ship   of   Fools   This   is   a   satire   that   was  published in 1494 in Basel, Switzerland, by  Sebastian Brant, a conservative German theo -  logian. The book consists of 114 brief satires,  illustrated with woodcuts, many by the German  artist-engraver Albrecht Dürer. The satires are  directed at the current state of the Catholic  Church. Brant conceives a St. Grobian, the  patron saint of vulgar and coarse people. The  work itself rests on a common motif in medi -  eval art and literature, based on the Latin word  navis,   a boat as well as the nave of a church. It  is interesting to note that these “boats” were  hauled through the streets loaded with fools  much   as   today   we   haul   floats   through   the  streets with a complement of fools, particularly  during   Fasnacht   (Shrovetide).  The concept of foolishness, or the fool, is  commonly found during the pre-Reformation  and was used to direct criticism in the form of  Ship of Fools   881

=== 페이지 899 ===
satire. It was used by Erasmus of Rotterdam in  his   In Praise of Folly   and by Martin Luther in  his   Address to the Christian Nobility.   Court fools  could also be used to criticize and satirize the  nobility.   Ship of Fools   immediately became popu -  lar among the people and resulted in six autho -  rized and seven pirated editions, all published  before 1521. Brant himself did not support the  Reformation, but many of his criticisms of the  Roman Catholic Church reflected themes used  by the reformers.  See also:   luther, martin  Ship of Fools  882   Ship of Fools

=== 페이지 900 ===
Shitenno   In Japanese Buddhist mythology,  four heavenly guarding kings who live on the  slopes of the cosmic mountain, Sumeru, guard -  ing the four corners of the earth. They are  Jigoku, Zocho, Komoku, and Bishamon. The  Shitenno are Hindu deities believed to have  been converted to Buddhism by the Buddha.  According to one Buddhist text,   Golden Light  Sutra,   they   will   protect   the   territories   of  Buddhist kings; thus, temples were built for  them by the Japanese emperors.  See also:   bishamon; buddha, the; jigoku  Shiva   (Seeva, Siva) (auspicious)   In Hinduism,  sometimes regarded as the supreme god and  sometimes the third god of the Hindu triad  made up of Brahma, the creator; Vishnu, the  preserver; and Shiva, the destroyer. Shiva is  often identified with the earlier god Rudra  mentioned in the Rig- Veda.  Shiva is the god of cosmic destruction. In  Hindu mythology, however, the term   destroyer  is understood as meaning that Shiva causes  beings to assume new forms of existence. He  is, therefore, a re-creator, who is perpetually  restoring that which has been destroyed. In this  role he is worshipped by his symbol, the   lingam  (phallus) or by the   lingam   and the   yoni   (womb)  of his wife Devi, who in some texts is regarded  as his   shakti,   or female energy.  In Indian art Shiva is often portrayed as a  handsome man with five faces and four arms.  He is often seated in yogic posture and has a  third eye in the middle of his forehead, con -  tained in or surmounted by a crescent moon. In  his role as god of the ascetics his matted locks  are often gathered up in a coil that bears the  symbol of the Ganges, which he caught as the  goddess of the river fell from heaven to earth.  He wears a   munda-mala,   necklace of skulls, and  serpents twine about his neck in a collar called a  nagakundala.   Shiva’s neck is blue from drinking  the deadly poison that would have destroyed  the world. In one hand he holds the   trishula  (trident), called Pinaka. He is frequently naked  but may wear the skin of a tiger, a deer, or an  elephant. The god is often accompanied by his  sacred bull, Nandin, chief of Shiva’s personal  attendants, who carries a staff of office. Nandin  is also the guardian of all four quarters of the  earth. He is portrayed milky white and is often  seen at entrances to temples dedicated to Shiva.  Other accessories of Shiva are a bow, Ajagava;  a drum, Khatwanga, in the shape of an hour  glass; and a club with a skull at the end and a  cord for binding offenders.  The German poet Goethe, in his poem  “The God and the Bayadere,” writes of one of  Shiva’s appearances on earth:  Mahadeva (Shiva), Lord of earth,  For the sixth time comes below  As a man of mortal birth,—  Like him, feeling joy and woe.  Hither loves he to repair,  And his power behind to leave;  If to punish or to spare,  Men as man he’d fain perceive.   .   .   .  Shiva  Shiva   883

=== 페이지 901 ===
Shiva sees and falls in love with a   bayadere  (dancing girl) and she with him. One night she  falls asleep,  And she finds the much-loved guest  On her bosom, lying dead.   .   .   .  When they bury the body of Shiva, the   bayadere  jumps onto the funeral pyre:  But the youth divine outsprings  From the flame with heavenly grace,  And on high his flight he wings,  While his arms his love embrace.   .   .   .  (Bowring translation)  Among   the   many   titles   by   which   Shiva  is   invoked   are   Aghora   (horrible);   Bhagavat  (blessed); Ardhanari (half man), a form in which  Shiva is shown as half male and half female,  typifying   the   male   and   female   energies   in  the universe; Chandra-sekhara (moon-crested);  Ganga-dhara (controller of the Ganges); Girisa  (mountain lord); Hara (seizer); Isana (ruler);  Jala-murti (whose form is water); Jata-dhara  (wearing   matted   hair);   Kala   (time);   Kalan -  jara (wearing a garland of skulls); Mahesha  (great lord); Mrityunjaya (vanquisher of death);  Pashupati (lord of animals); Sthanu (the firm);  Tryambaka (three-eyed); Ugra (fierce); Viru -  paksha (of misformed eyes); and Viswanatha  (lord of all). Maha-kala (great time), the form  in which Shiva is portrayed on the cave at  Elephanta, shows him with eight arms. In one  hand he holds a human figure; in another, a  sword or sacrificial ax; in the third, a basin of  blood; in the fourth, the sacrificial bell. With  two other hands he is drawing behind him the  veil that extinguishes sin. The other two arms  of the sculpture found at Elephanta have been  destroyed.  Vira-bhadra (gracious to heroes) is consid -  ered in some texts to be a son of Shiva, in others,  an emanation of Shiva. In one text,   Vayu Purana,  he is described as having “a thousand heads, a  thousand eyes, a thousand feet, wielding a thou -  sand clubs, a thousand shafts; holding the shell,  the discus, the mace, and bearing the blazing  bow and battle ax; fierce and terrible, shining  with dreadful splendor, and decorated with the  crescent moon; clothed in a tiger’s skin, dripping  with blood, having a capacious stomach and a  vast mouth armed with formidable tusks.”  See also:   brahma; devi; lingam; nandin;  rigveda; rudra; vishnu; yom  Shiva Nataraj   (Shiva Nararaja; Shiva Dancer;  Lord of Dance)   This dancing Shiva repre -  sents the source of all movements within the  cosmos, and the purpose of the dance is to free  men from the illusion of “self” and the physical  world. There are five primary gestures pre -  sented by the dancing figure: creation, symbol -  ized by the drum; protection, by the “fear not”  hand gesture; destruction, by the encircling fire;  embodiment, by the foot on the ground; and  Shiva and Parvati  884   Shiva Nataraj

=== 페이지 902 ===
release, by the foot held aloft. The unkempt hair  symbolizes the rejection of society, and nesting  in these dreadlocks is the goddess of the Ganges,  while a crescent moon keeps the god of nightly  love alive. The cobra wrapped about his upper  arms and neck symbolizes the power Shiva has  over deadly creatures. In the top left hand there  is fire in a vessel representing the destructive  energy at the end of each cosmic age. The bot -  tom left hand points to the raised foot, suggest -  ing bliss to those who call upon him, while the  other foot tramples the dwarf of ignorance, thus  allowing for the birth of knowledge. The figure  thus symbolizes God’s endless dance of creation,  preservation, and destruction.  Shou   Hsing   (longevity   star)   In   Chinese  legend, the deified sage Tung Fang So, wor -  shipped as the god of longevity.  One day Emperor Wu Ti saw a green spar -  row and asked Tung Fang So whether it was an  omen. Tung Fang So replied that it showed that  Hsi Wang Mu, the goddess of peaches, was com -  ing to visit the emperor with seven peaches from  the magic peach tree that grew in her sacred  garden. Each magic fruit,   p’an-t’ao,   conferred  on the person who ate it 3,000 years of life. As  the sage had predicted, the goddess Hsi Wang  Mu appeared to the emperor. As the goddess  was eating one of the peaches with the emperor  she noticed that Tung Fang So was peeping at  her through a window. “This man stole and ate  three of my peaches,” she said to the emperor,  “and now he is to live for thousands of years.”  Shou Hsing is portrayed as an old man car -  rying one, two, or three preaches, accompanied  by a deer or issuing from a peach. In Japanese  legend, Shou Hsing is called Tobosaku.  See also:   hsi wang mu; peach  Shri   (prosperity, luck)   In Hindu mythology,  goddess of prosperity and luck, often identified  with Lakshmi, another goddess of good for -  tune. Shri is also associated with fertility. One  of her epithets is Karisin (abounding in dung),  referring to her role with food and soil.  See also:   lakshmi  Shu   (he who holds up?)   In Egyptian mythol -  ogy, god of the air. He and his twin sister,  Tefnut,   constituted   the   first   couple   of   the  Ennead of Heliopolis, which was a system of  gods worshipped in Egypt.  According to one myth, the sun god con -  ceived Shu and Tefnut without benefit of a part -  ner. He masturbated and then swallowed his own  semen, sneezing out Shu and spitting out Tefnut.  Others say that Shu was the first son of the sun  god Ra and the sky goddess Hathor. At the  request of Ra, Shu was said to have separated the  sky (Nut) from the earth (Geb) and maintained  the division with his upraised arms. As a result,  light and space were created as well as heaven  above and earth below. Shu is often compared  to Atlas in Greek mythology, who supported the  heavens with his head and hands. In Egyptian  art Shu was almost always portrayed in human Shou Hsing  Shu   885

=== 페이지 903 ===
form wearing a feather or feathers on his head  and holding a scepter in his hand. Sometimes he  was pictured with his arms upraised and the four  pillars of heaven near his head.  See also:   atlas; ennead; geb; hathor; nut;  ra  Shuddhodana   (fifth   century   b.c.e. )   In  Buddhist   legend,   father   of   Gautama,   the  Buddha. He was the chieftain of the North  Indian Shakya tribe. In some accounts he is said  to have been a king. Told by soothsayers that  his son would be either a universal monarch or  a Buddha, an Enlightened One, he tried to pre -  vent him from becoming a Buddha but failed.  See also:   buddha, the  Shui Ching-tzu   (son of water essence, water  spirit)   In Chinese mythology, the spirit of  water, who made himself clothes of ebony bark.  He is one of the Wu Lao, the five spirits of  natural forces.  See also:   wu lao  Shvod   In Armenian folklore, guardian house  spirit, who is often cited as an ogre and used to  frighten children.  Sibu   In the mythology of the Indians of the  Isthmus of Panama, the supreme god. Sibu  entrusted a basket containing the seeds of all  life to Sura, a lesser god, but demonic powers  were continually after the basket. The evil god  Jaburu stole it and ate the seeds. When Sura  returned, Jaburu killed him. From Sura’s grave a  cacao tree and a calabash tree rose. Sibu forced  Jaburu to drink a mixture made from the cacao  tree served in a drinking vessel made of the cala -  bash. Jaburu liked the chocolate taste and drank  until his stomach began to swell. When it blew  up, Sibu picked up the seeds that came out of  Jaburu’s body. “Let Sura wake up again!” Sibu  declared. He again gave Sura the basket con -  taining the seeds of all life. In another creation  myth Sibu and Jaburu threw cacao pods at one  another. Sibu used green pods, and Jaburu used  ripe pods. At the third throw the pod broke in  Jaburu’s hand, and humankind was born.  Sibyls   In Greek and Roman cult, name given  to women endowed with prophetic gifts under  the god Apollo. Their number varied from one  to 10 to 12, and various sites were chosen for  their abode. The most famous Sibyl was that  of Cumae in Campania, Italy. This Sibyl led  Aeneas in the underworld after he broke off the  Golden Bough. According to some accounts  the Cumaean Sibyl was once the mistress of  Apollo. She tells Aeneas that she has lived seven  generations already because Apollo granted her  wish that she have as many years as their were  grains in a handful of dust. The Sibyl, however,  forgot to ask the god for perpetual youth and  thus   aged   and   shrank.   In   Petronius’s   novel  Satyricon   the Sibyl has shrunk to a tiny being,  Shu  886   Shuddhodana

=== 페이지 904 ===
all shriveled up, who is kept in a cage and asks  only to die. In another myth associated with  the Sibyl, she offered King Tarquinius Priscus  nine books of sibylline oracles. The king, how -  ever, refused to buy them at the price she set, so  she burned three and again offered the remain -  ing six. Again, he refused, and she burned three  more, still asking the full price. Realizing that  all of the books would be destroyed, Tarquinius  agreed to buy the remaining three for the  price of the original nine. The sacred books  were kept under the charge of Roman priests  and could only be consulted by order of the  Senate. In 83   b.c.e.   they were destroyed by  fire, and another set was produced. Eventually  the Christians and Jews began producing sets  of sibylline books, and 14 such books appeared  that are still extant. During the Middle Ages  the Sibyls along with the Hebrew Prophets  were said to have predicted the coming of  Christ. In the   Dies Irae,   the great medieval  hymn for the dead, the Sibyl is cited along  with King David. Michelangelo painted five  Sibyls on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, and  Raphael, Mantegna, Rembrandt, and Turner  also painted Sibyls. The Sibyl’s most famous  role is in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6).  See also:   aeneas; apollo; golden bough  Sick Lion, The   Aesopic fable found in vari -  ous European collections.  The lion allowed word to get around that  he was on his deathbed and wished all of the  animals of his kingdom to come to his cave to  hear his last will and testament. The fox did  not wish to be the first to enter the cave. So he  lingered near the entrance while the goat and  the sheep and the calf went in to receive the last  wishes of the king of beasts.  After a time, the lion seemed to make a  remarkable recovery and came to the mouth of  the cave. Seeing the fox a safe distance away,  he bellowed: “Why do you not come in to pay  your respects to me, Friend Fox?”  “Please pardon me, Your Majesty,” replied  the fox, “but I did not wish to crowd you. I  noticed the tracks of many of your subjects  going into your cave, but so far I have seen  none coming out. Until some of them come  out and there is more room in the cave, I think  I’ll stay out here in the open air.”  Moral:   Don’t believe all you hear.  The fable is alluded to by Horace in his  Satires   (book 1). In a variation of the fable,  The Ailing Lion and His Visitors,   included in  Juan Ruiz’s   El Libro de Buen Amor   (The Book  of Good Love), the lion is actually sick. When  he is visited by the other animals they offer  themselves for his supper. The lion chooses  a bull for dinner, and the wolf is chosen to  do the honors of carving. Thinking to get  the better of the lion, the wolf gives him  the entrails, saying they will be better for  his health. However, the lion raises his paw  and tears away the skin and an ear from the  wolf’s head. The fox is then ordered to do the  honors of serving. Fearful and clever at the  same time, she gives the whole trunk of the  bull to the lion and the entrails to the rest of  the party.  “Who taught you, dear madam, to carve so  well, so judiciously, so properly?” asked the lion.  “I studied the wolf’s head and learned from  it,” the fox replied.  See also:   aesopic fables  Sido   In Melanesian mythology, trickster of  New Guinea. Sido fell in love with a beautiful  woman named Sagaru, only to lose her to a  more powerful magician. Battling the magician  to try to win her back cost Sido his life. But his  spirit was not allowed to enter Adiri, the land  of the dead. So he went about seducing women  and children. After wandering for some time he  entered Adiri and planted a garden to feed the  dead. Transforming himself into a pig, he cut  out his backbone to form the roof of a house  for the dead. The Kiwaians on New Guinea  commemorate this event by fastening parts of  a pig to the framework of their homes. Sido is  also known as Hido and Iko.  See also:   adiri; trickster  Sido   887

=== 페이지 905 ===
888   Introduction  The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 906 ===
Siegfried   (victory   peace)   In   the   Nibelungen-  lied,   a   hero;   called   Sigurd   in   the   Volsunga Saga,  an   earlier   version   of   the   legend.  See   also:   sigurd;   nibelungenlied ;   vol -  sunga saga  Sif   (kinship)   In   Norse   mythology,   grain   god -  dess,   the   second   wife   of   Thor   and   mother   of  Ull,   Thor’s   stepson.   The   fire-trickster   god,  Loki,   stole   Sif’s   hair   and   was   forced   to   replace  it   with   golden   hair   made   by   the   dwarfs.   A   ken -  ning   for   Thor   is   the   “husband   of   Sif.”  Siggeir   In   Norse   mythology,   king   of   the   Goths  and   husband   of   Signy.   He   took   over   the   Volsung  kingdom,   slaying   Volsung   and   setting   wild   beasts  to   devour   Volsung’s   10   sons;   only   Sigmund   sur -  vived.   He   was   finally   killed   by   being   burned   alive  in   a   palace   set   on   fire   by   Sigmund   and   Sinfiotli.  Siggeir   appears   in   the   Volsunga Saga.  See   also:   sigmund; signy  Sigi   In   Norse   mythology,   a   son   of   Odin;   a  murderer   and   an   outlaw.   Before   he   was   killed  he   became   the   father   of   Rerir,   who   was   the  father   of   Volsung.  Sigmund   (victory   shield)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy,   son   of   Volsung   and   Ljod.   Sigmund   was  father   (by   his   sister   Signy)   of   Sinfiotli,   co-  avenger   of   Volsung’s   death,   and   father   (by  Hjordis)   of   the   great   hero   Sigurd.   Sigmund  was   killed   by   the   will   of   the   gods   for   having   had  sexual   intercourse   with   his   sister.   He   appears  in   the   Volsunga Saga   and   Richard   Wagner’s  Der Ring des Nibelungen.   Sigmund   is   portrayed  by   Arthur   Rackham   in   his   illustrations   for  Wagner’s   Ring   Cycle.  See   also:   ring   des   nibelungen,   der;  sigurd  Signy   In   Norse   mythology,   daughter   of  Volsung   and   Ljod;   sister   of   Sigmund,   and  mother   by   him   of   Sinfiotli.   Signy   was   forced   to  become   the   wife   of   King   Siggeir.   She   contrived  to   save   one   of   her   brothers,   Sigmund,   from  death   by   wild   beasts.   She   then   deceived   him,  disguised   as   a   gypsy,   and   bore   him   Sinfiotli,  who   became   Sigmund’s   companion   in   avenging  Volsung’s   death.   She   died   when   Siggeir’s   palace  was   set   on   fire.   She   appears   in   the   Volsunga Saga  and   as   Sieglinde   in   Richard   Wagner’s   Der Ring  des Nibelungen.  See   also:   ring des nibelungen, der ; siggeir;  sigmund  Siguna   (Sigyn)   (victory   giver)   In   Norse  mythology,   the   wife   of   Loki,   the   fire-trick -  ster   god.   She   tended   him   when   he   was   finally  bound   under   the   earth.  See   also:   loki  Sigurd   In   Norse   mythology,   a   hero;   in  Germanic   mythology   called   Siegfried.   Sigurd  was   the   son   of   Sigmund   and   Hjordis;   husband  of   Gudrun;   and   father   of   Sigmund,   Swanhild,  and   Awlaug   (by   Brynhild).   He   appears   in   the  Volsunga Saga,   in   William   Morris’s   Sigurd the  Volsung and the Fall of the Niblungs,   a   four-  book   epic   in   anapestic   couplets,   and   Richard  Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen   as   Siegfried.  He   is   portrayed   in   Arthur   Rackham’s   illustra -  tions   for   Wagner’s   Ring   Cycle.  See   also:   brynhild; gudrun;   ring des nibe -  lungen, der ; siegfried; sigmund  sileni   (moon   men)   In   Greek   mythology,  creatures   of   the   hills   and   woods,   often   con -  fused   with   satyrs,   having   horse’s   ears,   flattened  Sigurd   (Willy Pogany)  sileni   889

=== 페이지 907 ===
noses, horse’s tails or legs, or both. The most  famous   of   the   group   was   Silenus,   teacher  of Dionysus, who was made drunk by King  Midas. The Greeks compared Socrates with  Silenus not only because he was a teacher, but  because he was also ugly, as was Silenus. Vergil’s  Sixth Ecologue,   Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11),  Pope’s   Dunciad   (III, 324), Swift’s “The Fable  of Midas,” Shelley’s “Hymn of Pan,” and W.  S. Landor’s   Silenus   also cite or tell of Silenus.  Silenus appears in paintings of Titian, Piero di  Cosimo, Rubens, and Géricault.  See also:   dionysus; satyrs  Silvanus   (of the woods, forest)   In Roman  mythology, god of agriculture, watching over  hunters,   shepherds,   and   boundaries;   patron  god of houses and flocks. Under the Roman  Empire Silvanus was credited with protecting  parks and gardens. In Roman art he was por -  trayed as a strong woodsman. Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 8) describes a grove near Caere dedi -  cated to Silvanus that served as the boundary  between Latium and Ethruria.  See also:   aeneid, the  Silver Roan Horse, The   A magical horse  in Russian folklore that has eyes that spark and  nostrils that breathe fire. Shortly before an  old man dies, he tells his three sons to guard  his grave for three nights. When he dies, the  two older sons ignore his request and send the  youngest, Ivan the Fool, to take their place.  At midnight on the third night, the old man  appears and rewards his foolish son with a  silver roan horse. The czar announces that he  will marry his daughter to anyone who can  snatch her veil from a great height. Ivan the  Bacchanal with Silenus   (Andrea Mantegna)  890   Silvanus

=== 페이지 908 ===
Fool whispers a spell to the roan horse, climbs  into his ear, and soon appears as a handsome  young man. The horse leaps high, and on the  third try Ivan is able to catch hold of the veil.  He returns home but soon realizes that he has  changed back into his old normal and foolish  self. The czar looks for the youth but cannot  find him. Then a great banquet is held, and  Ivan remains unnoticed until he takes out the  veil and uses it to wipe the rim of his glass.  The czar recognizes him, welcomes him like a  lost son, and soon thereafter marries him to his  daughter. Needless to say, his two older broth -  ers remain unhappy.  Simeon   Stylites,   St.   (hearing)   (390–459)  In Christian legend, first pillar saint. Patron  of shepherds. Feast, 5 January in the Roman  Church   and   1   September   in   the   Eastern  Orthodox Church.  St. Simeon wanted to mortify his body, so  according to a fifth-century account in Theodor -  et’s   Ecclesiastical History,   he “elevated himself on a  pillar .   .   . of forty cubits in height, and there stood  he for 37 years with a chain around his neck, a  spectacle to men and to angels.” The account  goes on to tell that St. Simeon sometimes made  as many as 1,244 “inclinations of the body in  one day.” He also “stood one whole year on one  foot.” He died on his pillar. Tennyson’s poem   St.  Simeon Stylites   deals with the mad saint.  Simon   Magus   (Simon   the   magician)   (first  century)   In   the   Bible,   N.T.,   a   magician  rebuked by St. Peter because he attempted to  buy the power of the Holy Spirit (Acts 8:9–13).  The word   simony,   the buying of ecclesiastical  power, derives from his name. Christian tradi -  tion not included in the New Testament says  that Simon was a constant foe of Peter, even  following   him   to   Rome.   One   account   says  Simon requested that he be buried alive, cer -  tain he would rise up on the third day. Another  account says he tried to fly from a tower and  was killed when he fell.  See also:   peter, st.  Simurgh   (Saena, Semuru, Senmury, Simorg,  Simurg)   (thirty)   In   Persian   mythology,   a  gigantic bird whose wings were as large as  clouds. The Simurgh sat on the magical tree,  Gaokerena, which produced the seeds of all  plant life. When he moved, a thousand branch -  es and twigs of the tree fell in all directions.  They were then gathered by another bird, the  Camrosh, which took them to the rain god,  Tishtrya, who fertilized them. The Persian mys -  tic poet Farid Al-Din Attar (fl. c. 1180–1220)  used the Simurgh as a symbol of the godhead  in his poem   Nantiq-al-Tayr   (The Conference  of the Birds). The work is an elaborate allegory  in which 30 birds (Persian,   si murgh ) set out in  search of the Simurgh, only to realize in the  end that they are the Simurgh.  See also:   tishtrya  Sin   (moon)   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Sumerian), moon god of Ur and son of Enlil,  the storm god. Abraham, the Hebrew patriarch  in the Old Testament, came from Ur by way of  Harran, both cities being devoted to the moon  god Sin. Mount Sinai is also believed to have  been originally dedicated to Sin.  See also:   abraham; enlil  Simurugh  Sin   891

=== 페이지 909 ===
Sinbad   the   Sailor   Hero   in   the   tale   of  “Sinbad the Sailor and Sinbad the Porter” in  The Thousand and One Nights   (nights 536–566),  which contains the seven voyages of Sinbad the  Sailor. Sinbad was a merchant in Baghdad who  acquired great wealth by making seven voy -  ages, which he narrated to Sinbad the Porter,  a poor man.  First   Voyage   (nights   538–541):   Sinbad,   a  wealthy youth, squanders all of his money and,  attempting to recoup his loss, buys some mer -  chandise and sails away. The ship stops in the  Indian Ocean, and he and others of the ship  visit what they think is an island but which is  actually a large sleeping whale. They light a  fire on the whale’s back, and the heat wakes the  monster, which instantly dives into the ocean.  Sinbad   is   rescued   by   some   merchants   and  returns home.  Second Voyage   (nights 543–546): Bored with  life on land, Sinbad takes another journey by  ship. He falls asleep on an island where the ship  has stopped for water, and he is left behind.  He discovers the egg of a roc (a fabulous bird)  about 50 feet in diameter. When the monstrous  roc appears, Sinbad grabs hold of one of its feet  and is flown away to the Valley of Diamonds.  Here merchants on the cliffs above, unable to  reach the valley, throw down meat to the birds  in the valley. The diamonds strewn on the val -  ley’s bottom stick to the meat, which the birds  carry up and deposit in their cliffside nests.  The men then come and steal the diamonds.  Sinbad attaches himself to a piece of meat and  is lifted to an eagle’s nest. Later he is rescued  by the jewel collectors and returns home to  Baghdad a rich man.  Third Voyage   (nights 546–550): Sinbad’s ship  is captured by some savage dwarfs and is taken  to an island where a giant one-eyed ogre (simi -  lar to the Cyclops of Greek mythology) begins  eating the crew one by one. Sinbad heats two  iron spits and rams them into the monster’s  eye. The ogre summons two other monsters,  and most of the men are killed. But Sinbad and  two others escape, only to be lured to an island  by a serpent that attempts to swallow Sinbad.  He builds a wooden enclosure around himself  that makes it impossible for the serpent to  reach him. Sinbad is saved by a ship that sails  from island to island, and while on it Sinbad  sees a fish like a cow, fish like asses, and a bird  born from a seashell.  Fourth Voyage   (nights 550–555): Sinbad is  shipwrecked and cast ashore with his compan -  ions on an island inhabited by cannibals, who  imprison and fatten them for better eating,  though Sinbad eats little so as to remain thin.  He eventually escapes and reaches a kingdom  where bridles and stirrups are unknown. Sin -  bad makes himself rich by “inventing” them,  and the king gives his daughter as wife to Sin -  bad. When she dies, he is buried alive with her  body according to the custom of the land. Sin -  bad escapes, however, and returns to Baghdad,  rich from rifling the bodies of the dead on his  way out of the catacombs.  Fifth Voyage   (nights 556–559): Sinbad’s ship is  destroyed by two rocs whose offspring has been  eaten by merchants. Seizing a floating piece of  wreckage, Sinbad is washed ashore on a beau -  tiful island. He comes upon an old man who  appears “weak and infirm” sitting on the bank of  a stream. Thinking to help the old man, Sinbad  carries him on his back, but the man “clasped  his legs nimbly” around Sinbad’s neck, making  it difficult to walk. Eventually Sinbad makes a  liquor to get the old man drunk and then dashes  “his head to pieces.” After being rescued, Sinbad  learns the man was the Old Man of the Sea, and  Sinbad is “the first who ever escaped strangling  by his malicious tricks.”  Sixth Voyage   (nights 560–562): Sinbad’s ship  is driven ashore and breaks up on a barren island.  Here he finds many precious stones and also an  underground river, on which he rides a raft to  the city of Serendib, where the king welcomes  Sinbad. He is sent home with great wealth plus  a present for Caliph Harun al-Rashid.  Seventh   Voyage   (nights   563–566):   Caliph  Harun al-Rashid sends Sinbad back to Serendib  with gifts for the king. On his way, Sinbad is  892   Sinbad the Sailor

=== 페이지 910 ===
captured by pirates and sold as a slave to a mer -  chant who makes him an elephant hunter. He is  so successful that he learns of the burial ground  of the elephants, where a huge store of ivory is  located. He is rewarded with his freedom and  given a stock of ivory, with which he returns  home.   The   romantic   adventures   of   Sinbad  appeal to writers of adventure fiction, particu -  larly children’s stories, and Hollywood has pro -  duced films of many versions of the legends.  See also:   thousand and one nights, the  Sindri   (cinder)   In   Norse   mythology,   a  worker in gold among the dwarfs; Sindri cre -  ated Odin’s arm ring, Draupnir; Frey’s golden  boar; and Thor’s hammer, Mjolnir.  See also:   brok; frey; thor  Sinon   (plunderer)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  young Greek soldier, a relative of Odysseus,  who pretended to desert to Troy and convinced  the Trojans to bring in the wooden horse.  When night came, Sinon let the Greeks out  of the wooden horse, and Troy was sacked.  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 21) and Dante’s   Divine  Comedy   (Inferno,   canto   30)   cite   him   as   an  example of treachery. In the latter he is among  the falsifiers of words, called   il falso Sinon greco  (the false Greek Sinon).  See also:   aeneid, the ; odysseus; troy  Sinuhe   Hero in the ancient Egyptian “Tale  of Sinuhe,” found in various Egyptian manu -  scripts. The tale was used by the scribes and  students of the 12th and 13th Dynasties, who  copied it on ostraca (limestone flakes) as part  of their studies. The tale is of a man who has  to flee Egypt but always wishes to return to  his beloved land. Eventually, he is called back.  The short tale inspired Mika Waltari’s novel  The Egyptian,   which was made into a popular  Hollywood film.  Sirens   (those who bind with a cord, or those  who wither)   In Greek mythology, three water  nymphs,   Ligeia,   Leucosia   and   Parthenope,  who with their singing lured seamen to watery  graves. They lived on an island between Circe’s  isle and Scylla, where they sat in a flowery  bed surrounded by the rotting bodies of the  shipwrecked men. When Odysseus sailed past  them, he had the ears of his men stopped up  with wax so they could not hear the Sirens’  song. He, however, wanted to hear the song  so he had his men tie him to the mast. When  the Argonauts took the same watery route,  they   were   saved   by   the   song   of   Orpheus,  which defeated the songs of the Sirens. Either  Odysseus or Orpheus is responsible for their  deaths. The three cast themselves into the sea  when they failed to lure Odysseus or Orpheus.  They   were   transformed   into   sunken   rocks.  Generally, early Greek art portrayed the Sirens  as great birds with the heads of women, or with  the upper part of the body like that of a woman,  with the legs of a bird, with or without wings.  In later Greek art the Sirens were portrayed as  beautiful women. They are sometimes associ -  ated with the cult of the dead and were believed  to guide souls to the underworld. As such they  appear on various Greek tombs. Sirens appear  in Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 12), Apollonius of  Rhodes’s   The Argonautica,   Dante’s   The Divine  Comedy,   where they are symbols of sensual  pleasure, William Morris’s   The Life and Death  of Jason,   and E. M. Forster’s   Story of the Siren.  Debussy’s last section of his   Nocturnes   (1898)  for orchestra, “Sirènes,” captures the song of  the Sirens with a women’s wordless chorus.  See also:   argonauts; ligeia; nymphs; odys -  seus;   odyssey, the ; orpheus; parthenope  Sir Patrick Spens   Late medieval English  ballad that tells of a ship sent in wintertime  to Norway. On its journey home, Sir Patrick’s  ship is wrecked, and everyone on board is lost.  See also:   ballad  Sisyphus   (shrewd or wise)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, first king of Corinth, a trickster noted for  shrewdness and cleverness; son of Aeolus, king  of Thessaly, and Enarete. When Zeus raped  Sisyphus   893

=== 페이지 911 ===
Sisyphus   (Titian)  894   Sisyphus

=== 페이지 912 ===
the nymph Aegina, daughter of the river god  Asopus, Sisyphus promised to tell Asopus what  had happened, but only on the condition that  Asopus would give Corinth a spring on top  of the Acrocorinth, its acropolis. Zeus was so  angry at what happened that he sent Thanatos,  Death, to kill Sisyphus, only to have Thanatos  bound by Sisyphus so that no one could die.  Zeus then sent Ares, the war god, to free  Thanatos. As soon as Thanatos was free, he  killed Sisyphus, but before Sisyphus died he  asked his wife, Merope, not to perform the  prescribed funeral rites for his burial. This  angered both Hades and his wife, Persephone,  deities of the underworld, who sent Sisyphus  back   to   earth   to   have   the   burial   sacrifices  offered. Sisyphus promised to return to the  underworld afterwards, but he lived to a very  old age before he died again. Zeus, angered,  devised a punishment for Sisyphus when he  did return to the underworld. He was required  to roll a boulder up a hill, but whenever it  reached the top, it rolled back down—and had  to be rolled up the hill again, over and over.  Thus   Sisyphean   came to mean a fruitless, end -  less task.  Sisyphus appears or is cited in Ovid’s   Meta -  morphoses   (book   4);   Spenser’s   Faerie   Queene  (I.v.35); and Pope’s “Ode on St. Cecilia’s Day”  and supplies the title for Camus’ collection of  existential essays,   The Myth of Sisyphus   (1942),  in which Camus explores the absurdity of life.  Titian painted a   Sisyphus.  See   also:   aeolus; ares; asopus; hades;  nymphs; ovid; persephone; thanatos  Sivamala   (Shiva’s garland)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy,   a   rosary   that   the   goddess   of   wisdom,  Shatarupa, gave to Brahma, her husband and  father.  See also:   brahma  Sjoran   In Swedish folklore, a spirit of the sea,  derived, according to some scholars, from the  Norse goddess Ran, wife of the sea god Aegir.  See also:   aegir; ran  Skadi   (Skade) (damage)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, a giantess, wife of the sea god Njord and  daughter of the giant Thjassi. When her father  was slain for stealing Iduna’s magic apples,  Skadi demanded satisfaction for the deed. She  was allowed to choose a husband from among  the gods on the condition that she make her  choice by seeing only their feet from behind a  curtain. She thought she had chosen the hand -  some god Baldur but instead received Njord.  She lived part of the time at her father’s home,  Thrymheim, and part at her husband’s, Noatun.  According to the   Prose Edda,   she liked to spend  “her time in the chase of savage beasts, and is  called the Ondur goddess, or Ondurdis.”  See also:   iduna; njord;   prose edda  Skadi chose her husband by pointing to  the feet that she liked best  Skadi   895

=== 페이지 913 ===
Skald   In Norse mythology, the term for a  poet. In addition to the anonymous mythologi -  cal and heroic tales, representative of a continu -  ing oral tradition in the Germanic world, there  is a large body of poetry treating the same topics.  The god Thor is the most frequent mythologi -  cal subject of the poetry, and the basic stylistic  feature is the kenning, a representational sub -  stitution for a noun. Thor is referred to as “son  of Jord,” or as “husband of Sif.” Skaldic poetry  is thus ornate oral poetry that requires a knowl -  edge of the ancient myths and indicates their  survival after the conversion to Christianity.  See also:   jord; kenning; sif; thor  Skanda   In Hindu mythology, the six-headed  war god, son of Shiva. In some texts Skanda  is said to have no mother at all; Shiva cast his  semen into fire, and Skanda arose. In other texts  Skanda, called Karttikeya (son of the razors), is  said to have as his mothers the seven Kritikas  (the Pleiades). Sometimes represented as a razor,  Skanda is also called Guha (reared in a secret  place) and Kumara (the youth). The last epithet  is sometimes also applied to Agni, the fire god.  See also:   agni; pleiades; shiva  Skinfaxi   (shining   mane)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy, horse of Dagr (the day) that drew Dagr and  Nott’s carriage around the earth once a day. From  Skinfaxi’s mane, light was shed over the earth and  the heavens. Skinfaxi appears in the   Prose Edda.  See also:   dagr; nott;   prose edda  Skipper   Ireson’s   Ride   American   literary  ballad   by   John   Greenleaf   Whittier,   written  in 1857. It tells how Skipper Floyd Ireson  deserted his ship, causing the death of his  companions. Whittier said that his ballad “was  founded solely on a fragment of rhyme which  I heard from one of my early schoolmates, a  native of Marblehead.” The refrain:  Poor Floyd Ireson, for his hard heart,  Tarred and feathered and carried in a cart  By the women of Marblehead.  In the 1888 edition of his poems Whit -  tier says the poem was “pure fancy.” In reality  the incident took place in 1808 and Benjamin  Ireson, not Floyd, was accused of deserting  his men, though in fact the crew was respon -  sible for the wreck. The poem became so well  known that Rudyard Kipling incorporated a  story about it into his novel   Captains Coura -  geous.   In Samuel Roads’s   History of Marblehead  the victim, contrary to the legend and ballad,  was carried in a dory, not a cart, and men, not  women, were the principal avengers.  Skirnir   (he   who   makes   things   shine)   In  Norse mythology, the favorite servant of the  god Frey. He acted as a go-between for Frey  when he sought Gerda’s love.  See also:   frey; gerda Skanda  896   Skald

=== 페이지 914 ===
Skoll and Hati   (to stick to)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, two wolves that pursue the sun and moon.  The   Prose Edda   describes them as finally devour -  ing the sun and moon at Ragnarok, the end of  the world.  See also:   fenrir; frey; garm;   prose edda ;  ragnarok  skritek   In Slavic folklore, a household spirit,  often in the form of a small boy, who lives  behind the oven or in the stable. He protects  the family, which in turn leaves portions of  their meals for his consumption, especially on  Thursdays and Christmas. If for some reason  the   skritek   is offended, he causes havoc in the  house. His statue, made of wood, portrays him  with his arms crossed and wearing a crown.  The statue is placed on the table to guard the  hearth when the family is away. In Polish folk -  lore the   skritek   appears as a drenched chicken,  dragging its wings and tail.  Skuld   (future)   In Norse mythology, one of  the three named Norns, the others being Urd  and Verdandi. Skuld is portrayed veiled, facing  the future with a scroll in her hands.  See also:   norns; urd; verdandi  Slave and the Master, The   Moral fable by  the Persian poet Sadi, in   The Gulistan   (chapter 5,  story 2). A gentleman possessed a slave of exqui -  site beauty, whom he regarded with love and  affection. One day he said to a friend, “Would  that this slave of mine, with all the beauty and  good qualities he possesses, had not a long and  uncivil tongue.” “Brother,” his friend replied,  “do not expect service after professing friend -  ship, because when relations between lover and  beloved come in, the relations between master  and servant are superseded.”  See also:   gulistan, the ; sadi  Sleeping   Beauty,   The   European folktale,  the most popular versions being Perrault’s   La  Belle au bois dormant   (1697) and the Grimms’  Little Briar Rose   (1812). After many prayers a  childless king and queen were rewarded with the  birth of a baby girl. The king and queen invited  all of the people in the kingdom to her chris -  tening, and in addition they invited 12 of the  13 Wise Women (supernatural beings). They  omitted asking the 13th because they had only  enough gold goblets to serve 12 of them. At the  christening each of the Wise Women bestowed  a gift on the child. Before the end of the cere -  mony the uninvited Wise Woman appeared, and  in retribution for not being invited, she cursed  the baby, saying she would prick her finger on a  spindle and die. It happened that one of the 12  Wise Women had not yet bestowed her gift, so  she was able to temper the curse with her gift,  though not revoke it. For her gift she declared  that the princess would not die but would sleep  for 100 years when she pricked her finger and  could then be awakened by the kiss of a prince.  In an effort to forestall the curse the king  ordered all spindles in the kingdom destroyed.  However,   the   13th   Wise   Woman   disguised  herself as an old woman and hid a spinning  wheel in a remote tower of the castle, where  she sat spinning until the child’s 15th birthday.  On that day the princess wandered into the  remote tower and found the old woman and  the spinning wheel. Offering to let her try her  hand at spinning, the old woman made sure the  girl pricked her finger. The girl began to get  sleepy and went to her room to lie down. Sleep  then   overcame   everyone   in   the   castle,   and  eventually vines grew up over every portal and  window, completely covering the structure.  The story of the sleeping princess spread  throughout   the   land,   and   many   princes  attempted to scale the fortress to reach her and  revive her, but all failed. Then when 100 years  had passed, a young prince made an attempt  to reach the princess and succeeded. His kiss  awakened her, and then the entire castle awoke.  The prince and princess then married.  Perrault’s version was used by Tchaikovsky  for his ballet   The Sleeping Beauty.   Walt Disney’s  feature-length cartoon   Sleeping Beauty   (1959)  deals with the folktale in a sentimental manner.  Sleeping Beauty, The   897

=== 페이지 915 ===
Sleeping Beauty  898   Sleeping Beauty, The

=== 페이지 916 ===
Sleeping Beauty is tale type 410 and has  numerous well-known motifs: fairies preside  at child’s birth, one fairy sets the course of the  child’s life, a prick with a spindle causes magical  sleep, and disenchantment by a kiss.  See also:   motif; tale type  Slith   (the dark fields)   In Norse mythology,  a river that flowed in the land of the giants. In  the   Voluspa,   the first poem in the   Poetic Edda,  which narrates the creation and destruction of  the world, the river is said to come from the  east “through poisoned vales with swords and  daggers,” that is, icy cold.  See also:   poetic edda  Snail Lady, The   This is a Korean tale of  three contests. A young man who lived alone  in a small village hoed his garden every day and  muttered to himself: “If only I had someone to  share my meals with.” From somewhere in the  garden he heard a woman’s voice in response,  “Share your meals with me.” He looked around  but could find no one. This happened to him  again and again, but he never could find any -  one. One day, without thinking he picked up  a small snail and put it in a clay jar and then  took the jar into his cottage. When he woke  up the next morning, there on the table was  a wonderful breakfast just waiting for him.  That evening once again there was another  meal waiting for him when he returned home.  He pretended to go to work the next day but  waited instead outside the window of his house  and   looked   in.   He   saw   something   that   he  could not believe: A beautiful woman stepped  out of the clay jar and quickly busied herself  with making his meal, cleaning the house, and  washing his clothes. The next day when he  woke up, he just sat by the clay jar and waited  for the beautiful woman to come out. When  the snail woman came out, the young man  grabbed her by the hand and said: “Will you  please marry me?” She blushed but said yes,  and they lived very happily together. One day  the king was hunting near the village, spotted  the beautiful snail lady, and wanted to take her  away from the poor farmer and make her his  own wife. Because he was cruel and unjust, the  king devised a trick to take the snail lady away  from the farmer. “I challenge you to a contest,  to see who can cut down a tree fastest. If you  win, you can have half of my kingdom, but if  I win, then you must give me your wife.” The  farmer had to agree, but his wife gave him a  note telling him that if he would take his wed -  ding ring and the note and throw them into  the ocean, then her father the Dragon King  would come to his assistance. The young man  went to the sea and threw the wedding ring  into the water, whereupon the waters parted,  and he was able to go down to the realm of the  Dragon King. Here he received a gourd, but he  did not know what it was for. The day of the  contest arrived, and the king chose a small tree  for himself and a large one for the farmer. The  king ordered 200 of his soldiers to help him  chop down his tree, but the young man found  that there were countless little men with axes  in the gourd who then came out to help him,  and so he quickly cut down the tree. The king  was disappointed but then devised yet another  contest. They were to race their horses, with  the king on his great regal-looking horse and  the young man on a tired-looking small colt  that he had received from the Dragon King.  Once again the young man won the contest,  and the king was disappointed. A third contest  of racing boats was proposed. The young man  received a row boat from the Dragon King and  easily defeated the king in his bulky royal ship.  Because the young man had defeated the king  three times, he took the entire kingdom for  himself, but he always gave the food and riches  that the king had hoarded for himself to the  poor. He lived very happily with the snail lady  for the rest of his life.  See also:   dragon  Snake   A legless reptile. In world mythology  and folklore the snake, or serpent, is sometimes  a symbol of a beneficent being, sometimes a  Snake   899

=== 페이지 917 ===
demonic one. In Jewish and Christian belief  the snake is often equated with evil or the devil.  In Genesis (3:1) the serpent is described as  “more subtile than any beast of the field which  the Lord had made.” According to Christian  tradition, the snake had legs until he caused  the downfall of humans by tempting Adam and  Eve with the apple. Since then the snake has  been condemned to slither on its belly in the  dust. The Old Testament does not identify the  serpent with the devil, but the New Testament  does.   According   to   the   Book   of   Numbers  (21:5–9), Moses erected a brass serpent in the  desert when the Hebrews were in danger of  being wiped out by a snake plague. All of the  people who looked upon the brass snake would  recover from the poisonous snakebites. The  image erected by Moses was similar to the one  dedicated to the life-giving god Nin-gis-zida  in ancient Sumerian ritual. The brass serpent  seems to have been in use for some time, for we  are told that it was venerated during the reign  of Hezekiah (717–686   b.c.e. ) and destroyed by  that king because “the children of Israel did  burn incense to it: and he called it Nehusthan”  (2 Kings 18:14). Jesus uses the image of the  brass serpent when he says: “And as Moses  lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so  must the Son of Man be lifted up: That who -  soever believeth in him should not perish, but  have eternal life” (John 3:1–15).  In ancient Egyptian mythology the monster-  serpent Apophis, enemy of the gods Horus,  Amen, Ra, and Osiris, always tried to prevent  the sun god Amun-Ra from rising every day. But  the clever priests of Amun-Ra devised a magic  ceremony to guarantee that the sun would rise.  They made a snake out of wax, inscribed it with  the name of Apophis, and while reciting spells  and incantations cast it into the fire. The magic  worked, for every day the sun did rise over the  land of Egypt. But the same Egyptians saw the  snake as a symbol of resurrection because it shed  its skin. One ancient Egyptian text, devised to  help the dead achieve resurrection, puts the fol -  lowing lines into the mouth of the deceased:  I am the serpent Sata whose years are many,  I die and I am born again each day.   .   .   .  I renew myself, and I grow young each day.  The Greeks also used the snake or serpent as  a symbol of rebirth and healing. Asklepius, god of  medicine, was often shown with the caduceus, a  wand with two entwined serpents surmounted by  small wings or a winged helmet, both indicating  quick movement. In Aztec mythology Quetzal -  coatl (green-feathered serpent) was portrayed in  serpent form. In Persian mythology the serpent  or snake is believed to bring disease and death.  Ahirman, the evil spirit, once transformed him -  self into a serpent, entering human beings and  producing lust, greed, falsehood, slander, and  revenge. Numerous goddesses in world mythol -  ogy are also identified with the snake or serpent,  such as the Sumerian goddess Inanna, Queen of  Heaven, who is often portrayed holding snakes  in her hands, symbolic of her control of the phal -  lus. The Minoan Mother Goddess, who was “the  master of men,” was also pictured with snakes on  her person in Hindu mythology. The serpent is  associated with Vishnu, who sleeps on a coiled  serpent on the primordial waters. There are  numerous motifs associated with snakes in the  Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   amun; apophis; asclepius; cadu -  ceus; horus; moses; osiris; quetzalcoatl; ra Snake   (Konrad Gesner)  900   Snake

=== 페이지 918 ===
Snegurotchka   (the snow maiden)   In Rus-  sian mythology, lovely daughter of King Frost  and Fairy Spring. Snegurotchka was brought  up in the cold forest because sunlight would  destroy her. As long as she knew nothing of  love, she was safe from the sun god’s fatal  caress. But one day she heard the song of a  shepherd’s son, Lel, and asked her father to  let her join humanity. She was so overjoyed  at sharing in human emotions that she asked  Fairy Spring to give her the power to love.  The wish was granted, and she fell in love with  Prince Mizgyr, who left his betrothed, Kupava,  for Snegurotchka. But when the two declared  their love for each other, the sun’s rays touched  Snegurotchka, and she melted. Mizgyr cursed  the gods and drowned himself in a lake. The  legend of Snegurotchka was used by Alexander  Ostrovsky in his play   Snegurotchka ; Tchaikovsky  wrote incidental music for the first perfor -  mance. Rimsky-Korsakov used Ostrovsky’s play  as the basis for his opera   Snegurotchka.  Sodom and Gomorrah   (burning and sub-  mersion)   In the Bible, O.T., two cities of the  plain of the River Jordan, destroyed by fire  and brimstone by Yahweh, the Hebrew god.  The legend, told in Genesis (19:1–29) tells  how the patriarch Abraham asked Yahweh to  spare Sodom if 10 righteous men could be  found (women did not count). But none were  found. Yahweh sent three angels to the city,  and the angels encountered Lot as they entered  through the gates. Lot offered them lodging  and brought them to his house. Some men of  the city knocked at Lot’s door and demanded  that   Lot   send   the   three   strangers   outside  “that we may know [have sexual intercourse  with] them” (Gen. 19:5). Lot refused, offer -  ing instead to send out his virgin daughters  to be abused sexually. The angels intervened  and told Lot to prepare his family to flee the  city because it was to be destroyed by God.  While Abraham and his family and Lot and  his family fled, the city was destroyed. Lot’s  wife looked back on the destruction and was  turned into a pillar of salt (Gen. 19:26). The  city was punished, according to some bibli -  cal commentators, because of its homosexual  practices, but the biblical text makes it clear  that the crime was inhospitality to strangers,  since Lot was willing to offer his daughters to  the men of the city for sexual intercourse rather  than have his guests violated. But the incorrect  popular interpretation has stuck, and the word  sodomy   is used to refer to homosexual activity.  In Marcel Proust’s   Remembrance of Things Past,  the novel   Sodome et Gomorrhe,   translated into  English as   Cities of the Plain,   deals in part with  the narrator discovering that Baron Charlus is  a homosexual.  See also:   abraham; yahweh  Sohrab   (Suhrab)   In the Persian epic poem  Shah   Namah,   by   Firdusi,   son   of   the   hero  Rustum; he is killed by his father in battle.  The story of Sohrab and Rustum, that of the  combat between a father and a son who did not  know one another, forms part of the narrative  in Firdusi’s epic. Rustum, one of the greatest  warriors of the Persians, in the course of his  wanderings married the daughter of the king  Sodom and Gomorrah  Sohrab   901

=== 페이지 919 ===
of Aderbaijan but soon left his wife in pursuit  of more adventure. She bore him a son named  Sohrab, but fearing that Rustum would take the  boy and turn him into a soldier, she sent a mes -  sage saying she had given birth to a girl. Sohrab  grew to manhood and, longing to find his war -  rior father, went into the service of the Tartars. A  battle then ensued between the Persians and the  Tartars, with Sohrab on the side of the Tartars  and Rustum on the side of the Persians. When  Sohrab first saw Rustum, he had an intuition  who his antagonist was and eagerly inquired if he  was Rustum. But Rustum, ignorant of Sohrab’s  intuition, refused to reveal his identity and chal -  lenged Sohrab to combat. In their first encoun -  ter, after an exchange of spears, Sohrab evaded  his opponent’s club, but because of the weight of  the club Rustum lost his balance and fell. Sohrab,  however, refused to take advantage and offered a  truce. Rustum, enraged at his downfall, renewed  the struggle. Rustum then called out his own  name, and Sohrab, bewildered by the fact that  the man he thought was his father seemed to  be calling for Rustum, ceased to fight and was  fatally pierced by his father’s spear. Unsure of the  identity of his slayer, he declared that Rustum,  his father, would avenge his death. Finally, the  truth came out: each discovered the identity of  the other, but it was too late; Sohrab was dead.  The legend of a battle between father and  son is also found in Germanic heroic legendry.  The young warrior Hadubrand engaged his  father Hildebrand in a duel when the father  returned after 30 years and was not recognized  by his son.  This pathetic episode from   Shah Namah  inspired an essay by the French writer Sainte-  Beuve, which was read by the English poet  Matthew Arnold, who in turn used the essay  to form the basis for his blank verse narrative  poem   Sohrab and Rustum.   Arnold also consulted  an account of the episode he found in Sir John  Malcolm’s   History of Persia.  The   poem   was   characterized   by   English  poet Coventry Patmore, writing in the   North  British Review,   as a “vivid reproduction of Hom -  er’s manner and spirit” but not “a new and inde -  pendent creation.” This criticism was echoed  by Douglas Bush in   Mythology and the Romantic  Tradition in English Poetry.   He writes that the  poem is “academic” and has all of “the defects  of a poem written to illustrate a theory.”  See also:   hildebrandslied;   rustum, the;  shah namah  Sol   (sun)   In   Norse   mythology,   the   sun,  believed   to   be   the   daughter   of   Mundilfari.  Sol’s brother was Mani, the moon. When Odin  asked a wise giant where the sun and moon  came from, he answered:  Mundilfari he is called, the father of Mani  And also of Sol the same;  Into heaven shall they turn each day,  So that people can reckon years.  See also:   mundilfari  Solbon   (Sulbundu,   Tscholbon)   In   Siberian  mythology, god of horses, worshipped by the  Buriat; he rides through the sky with a lasso in  his hand. Solbon has three wives, one of them a  former Buriat girl whom he abducted from her  wedding feast. She bore him a son; his two other  wives are childless. In one myth Solbon left his  horses in the care of his groom, Dogedoi, while  he traveled in the western sky (Solbon is identi -  fied with the planet Venus). Dogedoi, however,  left the horses unattended for three days and  went out for a walk with Buto, his dog. When  he returned, he found that wolves had scattered  some of the horses and eaten the others. When  Solbon returned, Dogedoi was severely pun -  ished. Some horses are dedicated to Solbon by  the Buriat and are thereby removed from any  secular service in the community. During the  spring the manes and tails of the horses are cut  in preparation for a sacrifice to Solbon. Meats,  cream porridge, and wines are also prepared  for the god. The wine is thrown into the air in  Solbon’s honor, and the food is burned.  See also:   venus  902   Sol

=== 페이지 920 ===
Solomon   (peaceful)   (c.   971–931   b.c.e. )   In  the Bible, O.T., third king of Israel, son of  King David and Bathsheba, noted for his wis -  dom, though this is often in conflict in the vari -  ous accounts in the Bible regarding the king  and his extensive wealth. One rabbinical fable  says that Solomon wore a ring with a gem that  told him all he desired to know.  Two episodes from his life are most often  encountered in art and music: the visit of the  queen of Sheba (1 Kings 10) and the judgment  of Solomon. The rich and beautiful queen of  Sheba arrived at Solomon’s court in Jerusalem  with a great entourage. She had heard reports  of the king’s greatness and wisdom. Sheba tested  Solomon by asking him many difficult questions,  which he answered correctly. When she left  Jerusalem, the queen gave him many gifts. The  second episode deals with the king choosing the  genuine mother between two whores, each of  whom claimed to be the mother of a certain baby  (1 Kings 3:16–28). The women lived in the same  house, each had borne a child, and one of the  two children died at night. Both women claimed  the surviving child as her own. The dispute was  brought before Solomon, who called for a sword  to divide the living child in two, saying he would  give half to each. The real mother cried out, “O  Solomon’s Wisdom   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Solomon   903

=== 페이지 921 ===
my lord, give her the living child, and in no wise  slay it.” But the other woman said, “Let it be  neither mine nor thine, but divide it” (1 Kings  3:26). Solomon then gave the child to the first  woman, because a true mother would rather lose  her child than see it die.  Aside from the numerous paintings depict -  ing the subjects, Handel wrote an oratorio  Solomon.   In Islam Solomon is called Sulaiman.  Solomon   is   credited   in   the   Bible   with   the  authorship of the Song of Songs, the Proverbs,  Ecclesiastes,   and   the   O.T.   Apocrypha   Wis -  dom of Solomon. However, no serious biblical  scholar accepts his authorship of these works,  even though tradition assigns them to him.  See also:   david  Soma   In Hindu mythology, a plant and its  juice that was ritually filtered and sometimes  mixed with water, milk, butter, or barley to  produce   an   intoxicating   or   even   hallucino -  genic drink. The ceremony in which this is  drunk is the Avestan   haoma,   the central rite of  Zoroastrian worship. It was the drink of the  priest and those participating in a sacrificial rit -  ual. The soma is said to be “mountain borne”  or brought from the sky by an eagle, and thus  of divine origin. In the Rig-Veda it is said that  Indra draws her strength from soma juice. The  juice of the Soma is not to be confused with the  moon god of the same name.  See also:   amrita; chandra; churning of  the ocean; chyavana; gandharvas; garuda;  indra; lokapalas; rig-veda; zarathustra  Son of the Cinnamon Tree, The   A Korean  tale reminiscent of the flood myth, includ -  ing motifs of helpful animals (motif numbers  B300–B349). A fairy maiden falls in love with  a sweet smelling cinnamon tree. They marry,  and the fairy gives birth to a charming and  clever boy. When the boy is of age, his mother  returns to her home in the sky. Soon after she  leaves there are great storms, and the cinnamon  tree is washed into the ocean. The boy is saved  by riding on the branches of his father, and  together they float around the world. Along the  way a series of flood victims ask to be rescued,  including an army of ants, a swarm of mosqui -  toes, and, finally, a boy. The father agrees to all,  but he has reservations about the boy. When  the waters begin to dry up, the two boys are  put on an island where an old woman and her  two granddaughters have survived the flood.  The rescued boy turns out to be deceitful and  says that the charming boy is so clever he can  pick up a bowl full of rice grains scattered in  the sand on the beach. The army of ants helps,  and soon the rice again fills the bowl, without a  single grain of sand in it. The old woman now  offers the two young girls to the boys as wives,  but they must choose: one is in the east and  the other in the west of the house. Now the  mosquitoes come to the aid of the clever boy  and tell him that the good girl is in the east.  He chooses her for his wife, and they live very  happily. The other boy must take the girl in the  west, but they live unhappily for many years  before they resolve their differences. Together  they produce many sons and daughters and fill  the world with people once again.  See also:   motif  Sovi   In Slavic folklore, a hero responsible for  originating cremation of the dead. The tale is  found in a 13th-century Russian work that may  have been derived from a Finnish source.  When Sovi’s son died, Sovi buried him in  the ground. The next day he asked his son if  he had rested well. But the son groaned: “Oh!  Worms and reptiles have eaten me!” Sovi then  gave his son supper and put the body in the  hollow of a tree for the night. The next day he  asked the same question, and the boy replied:  “Countless bees and mosquitoes have stung  me. Oh, I have slept badly.” So the following  day Sovi made a huge funeral pyre and threw  the body of his son into it. The next day when  he asked the same question the boy replied: “I  slept as peacefully as an infant in the cradle.”  The custom of cremation was common in  earlier times in Slavic countries. In Lithuania,  904   Soma

=== 페이지 922 ===
when Great Duke Algirdas (or Oligerd) was  burned in 1377, some 18 saddle horses also  were included in the funeral pyre. The body  was dressed in a robe of rich purple brocade,  a   mantle   studded   with   pearls   and   precious  stones, and a belt of gold and silver.  Spes   (expectation)   In   Roman   mythology,  goddess of hope, invoked at births and mar -  riages and for a good harvest. She had sev -  eral temples in Rome. Portrayed as a young  woman, she held a bud, either closed or just  about to open, in her right hand.  Sphinx   (throttler)   In   Greek   mythology,   a  monster, half-woman, half-beast; daughter of  Echidna and Orthus or Typhon. The Sphinx  had the head of a woman and the body of a  lion. She was sent by Hera or Apollo to pun -  ish King Laius of Thebes. She would sit on a  rock and ask the following riddle: “What is it  which, though it has one voice, becomes four-  footed and two-footed and three-footed.” If  those questioned could not answer the riddle  the Sphinx hurled them from her rock, or else  she ate them. When Oedipus passed by the  Sphinx he was asked the riddle and replied that  the answer was man, for as an infant he is four-  footed, creeping on hands and feet; in his prime  he is two-footed; and in old age he uses a cane  as a third foot. When the Sphinx heard the cor -  rect answer, she threw herself over the cliff and  died. Pausanias, to rationalize the myth, wrote  in his   Description of Greece   that the Sphinx was a  woman bandit who waylaid travelers, her head -  quarters being on Mount Phicium. Carl Jung,  giving a psychological account, says that the  Sphinx represents the Great Mother goddess  who is destroyed by the stronger masculine  force represented by Oedipus. In the Egyptian  version of the Sphinx, however, it is always a  male and often symbolizes royal strength and  dignity. The Great Sphinx at Gizeh represents  the god Horus trying to catch sight of his  father, Ra, the rising sun, as he journeys across  the valley. Ingres and Moreau both painted the  Sphinx and Oedipus.  See also:   apollo; echidna; hera; horus;  laius; oedipus; pausanias; typhon  spider   An arachnid that spins webs that trap  prey and serve as nests. In Egyptian mythology  the spider is an attribute of the goddess Neith  as weaver of the world. In Greek mythology it  is associated with Athene, Harmonia, the Fates,  the   Moirai,   and   Persephone.   Athene   trans -  formed Arachne into a spider for challenging the  goddess to a weaving contest. The spider is also  associated with Holda and the norns in Norse  mythology and Ishtar and Atagatis in Sumero-  Semitic mythology. In Christianity the spider  is a symbol of evil or the devil. The Chibcha  Indians, a North Andean tribe of Colombia,  believe that the dead cross the lake of death  on boats made of spiderwebs. They therefore  hold the spider in awe and will not kill it. Some  South American Indian mythologies believe the  spiderweb to be the means of climbing from the  “lower world” to the “upper world.” In African  mythology, Yiyi, a spider man, brings fire from  heaven to help humankind. Yiyi’s web is used  by the handmaidens of the sun to come down  to earth to draw water and then reascend to  heaven. According to the Nauru Island natives  of the South Pacific, the world was created by  Areop-Enap (ancient spider).  In Mark Twain’s   Huckleberry Finn   (1885)  the author says that spiders are portents of bad Sphinx  spider   905

=== 페이지 923 ===
luck and even death: “Pretty soon a spider went  crawling on my shoulder, and I flipped it off and  it lit in the candle; and before I could budge it  was all shriveled up. I didn’t need anybody to tell  me that that was an awful bad sign and would  fetch me some bad luck.   .   .   . I got up and turned  around in my tracks three times and crossed my  breast every time; and then I tied a lock of my  hair with a thread to keep witches away.”  See   also:   arachne; athena; harmonia;  ishtar; neith; norns; persephone  Springfield   Mountain   American   ballad,  believed to be the oldest original American  ballad still in circulation. It tells of the death  by snakebite of Timothy Myrick at Wilberham  (then   Springfield   Mountain),   Massachusetts,  on 7 August 1761. There are several variants  of this ballad. Some were wild exaggerations  made up by vaudeville performers, in which  Myrich’s wife-to-be died as a result of trying to  suck the poison out.  Now Molly had a ruby lip  With which the pizen she did sip.  But Molly had a rotten tooth,  Which the Pizen struck and kill’d ’em both.  Sreca   (fate)   In Serbian folklore, female per -  sonification of fate, often portrayed as a beautiful  maiden spinning thread. If in a beneficent mood,  she protected the family. When in an evil mood,  she was called Nesreca and portrayed as an old  woman with bloodshot eyes who paid no atten -  tion to the welfare of the family. With the proper  spells the evil Nesreca could be dismissed, but  Sreca, a person’s fate, was his for his entire life.  Stacker Lee   (Stagolee; Stagalee)   In American  folklore, a black man who sells his soul to the  devil for a magic Stetson hat that enables him to  transform himself into various forms. Eventually,  the devil takes back his magic hat and sends  Stacker Lee to hell for killing Billy Lyon (Lion,  Galion). In some versions Stacker Lee takes over  hell, running the place for the devil himself.  See also:   devil; faust; shape-shifter  stag   An adult male deer. In Greek mythology  the goddess Artemis (Diana in Roman mythol -  ogy) punished Actaeon for spying on her nudity  by turning him into a stag, which was then  devoured by mad dogs. When Agamemnon  and his fleet were about to set sail for Troy,  the Greeks asked their priest how to placate  the goddess. Agamemnon was told to sacrifice  his daughter Iphigenia. When the sacrifice was  about to take place, Artemis (according to one  account) substituted a stag for Iphigenia and  took the maiden away to Tauris, where she  became a priestess of the goddess. In Christian  medieval folklore it was believed that when the  stag reached the age of 50 years it would search  for a snake, kill and eat it, and then make a mad  dash to the nearest pool and drink as much  water as possible to renew its antlers for another  50 years. If, however, the animal did not get  to the water within three days after eating the  snake, it would die. For Christians the stag  became a symbol of the soul thirsting after God.  There are numerous motifs associated with the  stag in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See   also:   agamemnon;   artemis;   diana;  iphigenia  Spider   (Konrad Gesner)  906   Springfield Mountain

=== 페이지 924 ===
Standish,   Miles   (c.   1584–1656)   In   American  history   and   folklore,   military   leader   of   the  Pilgrims.   He   appears   in   Longfellow’s   long  narrative poem   The Courtship of Miles Standish,  which is pure legend. Miles was not in love  with Priscilla and never sent John Alden to woo  the girl in his name. According to Longfellow’s  poem, Priscilla’s reply when Alden asked her to  marry Standish was, “Why don’t you speak for  yourself, John?” In reality Standish was mar -  ried twice. He believed in religious tolerance,  in contrast to his Puritan contemporaries. He  also appears in John Lothrop Motley’s   Marry-  Mount   and Helen Carlisle’s   We Begin,   both  works of fiction. Aside from Longfellow’s leg -  end, James Russel Lowell’s poem “Interview with  Miles Standish” is also legend. Longfellow’s  poem was made into operas by seven different  composers, but none is still performed.  Stanislaus   of   Cracow,   St.   (camp   glory?)  (1030–1070)   In Christian legend, martyr bish -  op of Cracow. Invoked by soldiers in battle.  Feast, 7 May. Stanislaus was appointed bishop of  Cracow in 1072. Because of the oppressive rule  of Prince Boleslaus II, the bishop excommuni -  cated him. In revenge Boleslaus murdered the  bishop with his own hands at the altar. The body  was then hacked to pieces; parts were placed in  goblets and flung out of doors to be eaten by  carrion birds. However, four eagles watched  over the remains of the saint. Then suddenly  the bones came together, sinew to sinew, limb to  limb, and the whole body was restored.  Star Husband Tale   In American Indian  mythology, a tale of two young girls who are  seeking husbands and in the process open up  a hole in the sky. The two girls are sleeping in  the open at night and see two stars. They make  wishes that they may be married to these stars.  In the morning they find themselves in the  upper world, each married to a star—one of the  stars a young man and the other an old man.  The women are usually warned against digging  but eventually disobey and make a hole in the  sky through which they see their old home  below. They are seized with longing to return  and secure help in making a long rope. On this  they eventually succeed in reaching home.  This tale was used by the American folklor -  ist Stith Thompson to reconstruct an archetype  or hypothetical original form of the tale, “from  which all other versions were produced by some  individual or group changes.” By comparing 86  versions Thompson was able to offer statistics in  support of his hypothetical archetype. Two girls  (65 percent) sleeping outside (85 percent) make  wishes for stars as husbands (90 percent). All of  the other motifs ranged statistically from 55 per -  cent to 90 percent Thompson also used maps to  locate the tale, by means of which he suggested  that the tale was probably created in the Central  Plains area of North America and diffused in all  directions from its place of origin.  See also:   tale type  star   of   Bethlehem   A flowering plant of  the lily family. In medieval Christian legend,  it was blessed by the Child Jesus as he lay in  his manger because it served as his pillow. At  Christmastime in Italy the manger is decked  with star of Bethlehem. The French call it   la  dame d’onze heures,   because it always opens at  eleven o’clock.  Stephen, St.   (crown)   (first century)   In the  Bible, N.T., proto-, or first, Christian martyr,  who was stoned to death. Feast, 26 December.  His legend is told in the Acts of the Apostles  (6,7). Medieval legend deals with the recovery  St. Stephen  Stephen, St.   907

=== 페이지 925 ===
The Martyrdom of St. Stephen   (Gustave Doré)  908   Stephen, St.

=== 페이지 926 ===
of the saint’s body, which had been missing for  some 400 years after his death. Lucian, a priest  of Carsagamala in Palestine, was visited in a  dream by Gamaliel, the Jewish doctor of the  law who had taught St. Paul. Gamaliel revealed  to Lucian that after the death of Stephen he  had carried away the body and buried it in his  own tomb. Gamaliel had also placed near St.  Stephen’s body those of Nicodemus and other  saints. Lucian had the dream of Gamaliel three  times. He went to his bishop, told the dream,  and a crew went out to dig at the spot indicated  in the dream. The crew discovered the remains  of St. Stephen as well as those of some other  saints. The relics were first placed in Jerusalem,  then later taken to Constantinople, and finally  to Rome, where they were placed in a tomb  with the body of St. Lawrence. One medieval  legend relates that when they opened the tomb  and lowered St. Stephen’s body, St. Lawrence’s  body moved on its side, giving place of honor  on the right to St. Stephen. From the legend,  the Romans called St. Lawrence   Il cortese Spag -  nuolo   (the courteous Spaniard). The phrase “fed  with St. Stephen’s bread” means to be stoned  to death.  See also:   lawrence, st.; nicodemus  Stonehenge   A prehistoric circle of very large  stones   on   Salisbury   Plain   in   England.   The  medieval historian Geoffrey of Monmouth in  his   History   of   the   Kings   of   Britain   says   that  Stonehenge was erected by Merlin to perpetuate  the memory of the teacher of Hengist the Jute,  who killed King Vortigern and 400 of his atten -  dants while pretending peace. Merlin was asked  by Auralius Ambrosius to devise a memento to  this cruel event. By magic Merlin transported  the Giant’s Dance, stones that had been brought  by a race of giants to Killaraus in Ireland from  Africa. The stones were said to possess magic  properties. Legend also associates Stonehenge  with the Druids, but recent scholarship has  revealed that it is a much older structure.  See   also:   druids;   hengist;   merlin;  vortigern  Stone of Scone   In British legend, believed  to be the stone on which Jacob rested his head  at Bethel, as recorded in the Old Testament.  Medieval legend said that it was carried to  Egypt, Spain, Ireland, and finally to Scotland,  where it was placed in the monastery of Scone.  Scottish kings were crowned on the sacred  stone.   The   English   coronation   chair,   made  for King Edward I, was designed to enclose  the Stone of Scone, which he seized from the  Scots in 1297. The chair, made of oak, was  painted with birds, foliage, and animals on a  gilt ground. Since 1308 every English sover -  eign, except Edward V and Edward VIII, has  been crowned on it.  See also:   jacob  stork   A large wading bird having long legs  and a long neck and bill. In western European  folklore the stork is believed to bring babies.  Many Germans believed that if a stork flew  over a house it meant a child was on the way.  This reflects the early belief that children were  brought up out of the water or found in rocky  caves. In Greek mythology the stork was sacred  to the goddess Hera and in Roman mythol -  ogy, to Juno, Hera’s counterpart. In Christian  symbolism the stork represents chastity, purity,  and piety and is a harbinger of spring. Aristotle  wrote that “it is a common story of the stork  that the old birds are fed by their grateful prog -  eny.” It was believed in the Middle Ages, partly  based on Aristotle, that when a stork grew old  its children would surround it, provide it with  food, and aid it when it flew by supporting it  gently on each side with their wings. There are  numerous motifs associated with the stork in  the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   hera; juno  Stormalong, Old   In American folklore, an  occupational hero among sailors, particularly  well known in chanteys, or sailors’ work songs.  One chantey begins “Old Stormy was a good  old man, ay, ay, ay Mister Stormalong,” and  ends with a formulaic: “O Stormy’s dead and  Stormalong, Old   909

=== 페이지 927 ===
gone to rest, of all the sailors he was best.” Old  Stormy was also well known in tall tales. When  his ship was blown off course by a hurricane  and crashed into the Isthmus of Panama, it cut  through the ground just as it had parted the  waves, creating the Panama Canal. Like other  folk heroes, Old Stormalong is strong beyond  belief, and his feats resemble those of other  American tall tale heroes.  See also:   crockett, davy; joe magarac; john  henry; mike fink; paul bunyan; pecos bill  story   cloths   In   the   mid-1970s,   many  Southeast   Asian   Hmong   people   fled   to  Thailand to escape the war in Laos, and some  then made their way to the United States.  They have in the past referred to themselves  as M’peo, “embroidery people,” and have long  been known for their textile traditions. Women  produce embroidered and appliquéd items such  as funeral pillows and burial clothing, belts,  and toy mobiles. In contrast to the geometri -  cal forms made the past, the new cloths are  Embroidered story cloth   (photo by Michael Owen Jones)  910   story cloths

=== 페이지 928 ===
representational and depict Hmong folktales,  customs, and rites of passage and even the  Hmong’s escape from Laos. They are some -  times used as a pedagogic tool for teaching  children about their heritage.  Story of Brave Kong, The   A Cambodian  story that resembles the classic story of the  “Brave Little Tailor” in the Grimmses’ tales.  A man named Kong had two wives, one called  Ahm and the other called Kum. When they all  set off to visit Kong’s brother in a far-off coun -  try, they pass through a forest where a large and  fierce tiger lives. The tiger attacks, and Kong  hides in the hollow of a tree while his wives  beat the tiger to death. Kong claims credit  for the death and has his wives carry the tiger  hanging from a pole to his brother’s country.  The wives try to take credit for the death of the  tiger, but Kong reassures the people that only a  man is brave enough to carry out such a deed.  The story of Kong’s bravery spreads and the  king sends for him and makes him an officer  to lead his army into battle. War breaks out,  and Kong finds himself sitting on an elephant  and so fearing for his life that his legs begin to  shake. The elephant takes this for a command  to charge and does so, with the army troops  following.   Brave   Kong   becomes   the   victor.  Soon the king hears about a dangerous croco -  dile in the river nearby, where it was impossible  to bathe or draw water. Kong is sent, but is still  afraid for his life. He discusses the matter with  his wives, who then discuss it with the family.  All decide to help Kong in his battle with the  crocodile. Near the bank of the river is a large  tree with huge branches that hang down to the  water. When Kong finally has no other choice,  he   jumps   into   the   water   and   frightens   the  crocodile so that the beast rears its head and  gets it caught in the fork of a tree. The family  members then jump into the water and kill the  crocodile with a spear. Kong surfaces to find a  dead crocodile and begins boasting louder than  ever about how brave he has been in killing the  animal. Brave Kong then receives even more  honors and treasures from the king and rests  happily on his laurels for many years.  See also:   crocodile  Story of Mr. Basket Knife, The   In this  Cambodian story that resembles the story of  the “Magic Table, the Golden Donkey, and the  Cudgel in a Sack” in the Grimmses’ tales, two  orphaned brothers became Buddhist monks.  They live in a monastery where they learned  to read and write in Cambodian and Pali and  to recite holy scriptures. The abbot tells them  that the older brother will go to China and  become a high mandarin of the court, while  the other brother will become the ruler over  two kingdoms. To the second brother he gives  the following advice: “When all others are tired  and sleeping, don’t go to sleep; take a wife, but  watch out for your mother-in-law; and when  in bed with your wife, don’t give away any  secrets.” The first brother departs for China  and leaves his younger sibling at home, where  he marries but remains quite poor.  In time the younger brother decides to go  to China to see how his brother is doing. On a  junk, he is quite helpful, and the boat’s captain  gives him good food and a place to sleep. In  China, the mandarin is not at home, and the  wife takes the younger brother for a beggar. She  has him put in chains until her husband comes  home and recognizes his brother. A sage is con -  sulted and says that indeed the brother from  Cambodia will become the ruler over two king -  doms. When they part, the younger brother is  given new trousers and a small piece of calico.  Back on the junk and out at sea, the sailors all  fell asleep but the younger brother stays awake.  Suddenly a monstrous ogre appears and pre -  pares to eat all the crew. The younger brother  seizes him by his mustache and does not let  him go until the ogre pays him a ransom. The  young man gets a rope that knots of its own  accord, a cudgel that pounds when prompted,  and a cooking pot that prepares meals all by  itself. When the captain hears of these magical  gifts, he drops anchor at a remote island and  Story of Mr. Basket Knife, The   911

=== 페이지 929 ===
leaves the young brother up in a fig tree, taking  the rope, cudgel, and cooking pot for his own.  During the night, a pig comes to feast on the  figs, crossing the waters with a magical crystal  that he has in his mouth. By trickery, the young  man lures the pig away and takes the crystal for  his own, thereby being able to walk on the sea  and catch up with the ship. Now the captain  wants the crystal too, but the younger brother  is able to escape with his magical treasures.  Back at home, his wife has taken a lover  who has to leave quickly when the brother  suddenly returns. Forgetting the advice of the  abbot, the younger brother tells his wife of the  magical objects, which he has buried beneath  the ladder that leads to the house. The lover is  under the house, hears everything, and quickly  steals the objects. Now the younger brother  decides to make his case to the king by drag -  ging the ladder on a rope to the palace. The  king is sympathetic when he hears of all the  magic objects and lets the younger brother stay  in the palace for three days. The king gives the  young brother fine material for a   sampot —a  Cambodian sarong—but tells him not to come  with his wife to a spectacle that he is preparing.  He suspects that the wife will make a jacket for  her lover and bring him with her to the palace  instead. The guards are told to arrest anyone  who appears in the fine   sampot   that the king  has given to the younger brother. The lovers  are captured, and the magical treasures are  reclaimed. Now the young man offers these  objects to the king so that when he fights  in battles, the rope can bind the enemy, the  cudgel can beat them, and the pot can prepare  meals for the king’s men. When asked what he  wants in return, the young brother asks only  for a long-handled basket weaver’s knife, which  is produced immediately by royal workmen.  From that day on, he is known in the realm as  “Mr. Basket Knife.”  Now   Mr.   Basket   Knife   sets   out   on   yet  another journey. He becomes the guardian of a  rich merchant’s goods and property. At this time,  in this new kingdom, the king begins to look for  someone who can watch over his interests and  someday replace him. He prepares a trial to find  someone fitting by making a royal bed covered  with cushions and a banquet with tempting  dishes. Each night an official is brought into  the room and left to guard the treasures. Each  time, the official eats the sumptuous food and  falls asleep on the royal bed. The king is very  disappointed and finally asks the rich merchant  to take his turn. Instead, the merchant sends the  younger brother whom he has accepted as his  own son. The king is always hiding to watch the  guard in the trial room, and thus is able to dis -  cover who is to be trusted. For Mr. Basket Knife  the assignment is easy; he stays awake and soon  sees the king in disguise. He shouts “Stop, thief!”  But the king runs toward the throne room. Mr.  Basket Knife follows him, slashing all the pillars  along the way with his basket knife. When the  merchant is called in the next day, he admits that  he himself had not stood guard, rather it was  his son. The king, who does not know that the  merchant has a son, then calls Mr. Basket Knife  to the palace and confirms that indeed it was  he who has successfully guarded the treasures  and has not fallen prey to the temptations of  food and the bed. The king recommends that  the merchant give his daughter to Mr. Basket  Knife as his wife. Because the king is aging, he  decides to appoint Mr. Basket Knife as one of his  officials, and he offers his own daughter to him  as a second wife.  Mr. Basket Knife next decides to return to  the king who had rewarded him with the basket  knife. They are happy to see each other again,  and this king also offers his daughter to Mr.  Basket Knife. As her dowry, the king returns  the rope, the cudgel, the cooking pot, and the  magic crystal. Again, the younger brother suc -  ceeds the king and becomes King Basket Knife  and rules over two kingdoms. After many years  of happiness with his three queens, the king  calls for his mandarin brother to come back  to Cambodia. His brother returns, and King  Basket Knife guards all the subjects in his two  kingdoms happily ever after.  912   Story of Mr. Basket Knife, The

=== 페이지 930 ===
Story of the Greedy Family, The   This  is   a   Cambodian   version   of   the   well-known  European tale of the   Kind and Unkind Girl  (AT 403). A young woman is sent off every  day into the forest to search for roots and wild  vegetables. In the forest, she searches near a  hill with a large crevice but looses her spade  through the opening. When she calls out for  help, a tiger comes to her rescue. He has a large  wound on his head, and flies and insects bother  him constantly. He agrees to fetch the young  woman’s spade if she will help him get rid of all  the insects. Because she is a kind-hearted girl,  the young woman pulls a thorn from the tiger’s  wound and then gets rid of all the insects. As  a reward the tiger fills her basket, not with  vegetables and roots, but with gold. When she  returns home all the young woman’s brothers  and sisters came together and are amazed at  the basket full of pure gold. A greedy neighbor  woman decides to send her daughter into the  forest to get a similar share of the gold. The  girl throws her spade into the crevice and calls  out for help. The tiger comes and again asks  for the same help, but the cruel and unkind  girl refuses to assist him. He then asks for her  basket, and in it he puts a huge, long snake. She  is told to take it home and share the basket’s  contents with her brothers and sisters. The  greedy girl did not even say goodbye to the  tiger but rushes back home and calls her family  together. When they open the basket the long  snake comes slithering out and mortally bites  all the people in the room.  Story of the Jackal and the Shrimp, The  The Cambodian story of the jackal and the  shrimp belongs to the animal tales told around  the world. When a jackal tries to eat some of  the fish in a pond that is drying up, he encoun -  ters not only fish but also lobsters, crabs, snails,  and shrimp. Just as he is about to devour them,  a wise shrimp points out that they are all dirty  and will taste better if taken to a clear pond or  lake and washed off first. The jackal agrees and  lies down in the mud so that the sea creatures  can attach themselves to his hide. He then  takes them to a lake where they all dive down  to deep water, but the shrimp says that the  jackal should call all of the other animals to  take part in the feast. The animals come and  begin to bail the water out of the lake to get to  the fish. The fish take counsel and decide that  the carp should go ask Judge Rabbit for his  help. He agrees to come, and when he arrives,  he picks up a leaf that has been chewed on by a  caterpillar. This he holds in his hand and tells  the animals that it is a letter from Indra, the  god of the skies. He says that Indra tells him in  the letter that he will send lightning and thun -  derbolts to kill all the animals unless they stop  bailing the water out of the lake. The animals  are all frightened, run off, and fall into the lake,  where they are eaten by the fish. Today animals  still respect the cleverness of the animal that  rescued them: Judge Rabbit.  See also:   indra; rabbit  Strap Buckner   In American Western folk -  lore, a giant of a man who could drink any of his  companions under the table. Aylett C. (Strap)  Buckner   (1794?–1832)   moved   to   Texas   as   a  young man from Virginia. Red-headed, of Irish  and Scottish ancestry, he was supposedly nick -  named “Strap” because of his prodigious size and  strength. Though legend has it that the Indians  (who, impressed by his strength, reportedly nick -  named Buckner the “Red Son of Blue Thunder”)  offered him marriage with the Indian princess  Tulipita, Buckner never married. One histo -  rian suggested that his lack of heirs allowed the  growth of ever-more outlandish legends of his  strength and size. He had a red beard and rode  a swift gray horse. One day he was challenged at  cards by the devil and lost when the demon grew  to nearly 200 feet tall and some 80 feet in girth.  Strap Buckner’s spirit is still seen astride his gray  horse riding through the night.  strawberry   A small bush producing sweet  berries. In Norse mythology, the strawberry  is associated with the love goddess Frigga; in  strawberry   913

=== 페이지 931 ===
Christian symbolism, it is associated with the  Virgin Mary.  See also:   frigga; virgin mary  Stribog   In Slavic mythology, god of winds.  In the Russian epic   The Lay of Igor’s Army,  the winds are called the grandsons of Stribog.  Other   Slavic   wind   gods   are   Varpulis,   who  caused the noise of a storm; Erisvorsh, god of  the “holy tempest”: and Vikhor, god of whirl -  winds.   In   areas   with   harsh   winters   Stribog  came to be considered the Winter King whose  gusts chilled the bones of Mother Earth.  See also:   lay of igor’s army, the  structuralism   The   structural   approach   to  understanding   traditional   narratives   is   con -  cerned with establishing a synchronic (con -  temporary) rather then a diachronic (historical)  basis for comparison. The structural method  is based on structural linguistics and seeks to  define   minimal   units   of   narratives   that   are  distinct from the overall content of the tale. In  1928, Vladimir Propp (1895–1970) published  his   Morphology of the Folktale,   in which he main -  tained that “fairy tales possess a quite particular  structure which is immediately felt .   .   . even  though we may not be aware of it.” By using  100 well-known fairy tales collected from the  Russian by A. N. Afanas’ev, he was able to iden -  tify 31 functions, by which he meant “an act of  a character, defined from the point of view of  its significance for the course of the action.”  His goal was a typology of narrative structures,  and even though not all functions are present  in all tales, there are clearly identifiable “pairs,”  and all functions occur in the same sequence.  See also:   propp, vladimir; afanas’ev, a. n.  Struwwelpeter,   Der   (Shock   Head)   Der  Struwwelpeter,   first published in 1845, is still  a popular German children’s book written by  Heinrich Hoffmann. It is made up of 10 illus -  trated stories about children, with a clear moral  about the disastrous consequences of misbe -  havior. Hoffmann was a Frankfurt physician  who wanted to buy a picture book for his son  for Christmas in 1844. Instead, he bought a  notebook, wrote his own stories, and drew the  pictures to accompany them. It was the third  edition in 1858 that gave the book its final title,  Der Struwwelpeter.   The book has been published  in many languages, including one in English by  Mark Twain. A digital version appeared in 2006  from Fantagraphics Books, reinterpreted and  illustrated by Bob Staake. The stories have also  been adapted as a musical,   Shockheaded Peter,   cre -  ated by Julian Bleach. In the original story only  some of the children die, while in the musical  they all do. The hero of the 1991 film   Edward  Scissorhands   evokes Peter’s appearance, with sim -  ilarly messy hair and sharp scissors where Peter  has untamed fingernails. The comic book writer  Grant Morrison also copied   Struwwelpeter   in  several of his DC Comics, like   The Story of  Little Suck-a-Thumb.   There is a   Struwwelpeter  museum in Frankfurt, Germany.  stupa   (mound)   A mound of earth covered  with masonry, containing at its center a relic,  usually of the Buddha or Jina, or a portion of  scripture. According to Buddhist legend, when  Struwwelpeter, or Shockheaded Peter  914   Stribog

=== 페이지 932 ===
the Buddha was about to die, he was asked by  a disciple what would happen to his remains  after death. The Buddha answered that a   stupa  should be built to contain them. Ashoka, the  Buddhist king, built   stupas   at sites associated  with the birth, life, and death of the Buddha.  In Ceylon   stupa   is called   thupa.   Various archi -  tectural structures and terms developed from  the term stupa: in Burma,   asgopa ; in China and  Japan,   pagoda ; and in Tibet,   chörten.   Some older  accounts call a   stupa   a   tope.   A   chaitya   is a hall  containing a   stupa   or an image of Buddha. The  stupa   provides a physical focus for worship so  that the mind may ascend to contemplation of  spiritual realities.  See also:   asoka; buddha, the; jina  Stymphalian   Birds   In   Greek   mythology,  bronze-beaked, man-eating, fantastic birdlike  beings,   expelled   from   Lake   Stymphalus   in  Arcadia   as   Heracles’   sixth   labor.   The   hero  frightened the birds with bronze castanets given  him by the goddess Athena. Heracles then shot  at them; some escaped and flew to the Black  Sea, later to threaten the Argonauts. They were  believed to be associated with Artemis’s cult.  Images of them were carved on the metopes of  Zeus’s temple at Olympia. Pausanias’s   Descrip -  tion of Greece   (book 8) tells of the birds. Dürer’s  Hercules Killing the Stymphalian Birds   shows the  hero drawing his bow to kill them.  See   also:   arcadia; argonauts; artemis;  athena; heracles; zeus  Styx   (hated)   In   Greek   mythology,   one   of  the five rivers of Hades, the underworld, over  which Charon ferried the spirits of the dead.  It was named after Styx, the eldest daughter  of Oceanus and Tethys and mother of Zelus  (zeal), Nike (victory), Kratos (power), and Bia  (strength) by the Titan Pallas. In the battle  between the gods and the Titans Styx sided  with the gods and was rewarded for her service  and made ruler of the river named after her.  The gods swore by the sacred Styx, and if they  violated their oath, they would be punished by  nine years of banishment from the council of the  gods and would spend one year speechless and  breathless. Though its waters were believed to  be poisoned, Thetis immersed her son Achilles  in its water to make him invulnerable.  The Styx appears or is cited in Homer’s  Odyssey   (book 10), Hesiod’s   Theogony,   Vergil’s  Aeneid   (book 6), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book  3), Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Hell, cantos 7, 9,  14), Shakespeare’s   Troilus and Cressida   (V.4) and  Titus   Andronicus   (1.11),   Milton’s   “L’Allegro”  and   Paradise Lost   (Book 2), and Pope’s   Dunciad  (2.338). In art Joachim Patinir’s   Charon Crossing  the Styx   and Delacroix’s   Dante and Virgil Cross -  ing the Styx   are best known.  See also:   achilles;   aeneid, the ; charon;  hades; hesiod; nike; oceanus;   odyssey, the ;  pallas; thetis; titans  Su-bhadra   In Hindu mythology, sister of  Krishna (an incarnation of the god Vishnu)  and a wife of the hero Arjuna. According to  some accounts Su-bhadra had an incestuous  relationship with her brother Krishna. When  the cart Jagan-Natha is brought out, images  of Su-bhadra and her elder brother Balaram  accompany the idol.  See also:   arjuna; balaram; jagan-natha;  krishna; vishnu  Sucellos   (the good striker)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, a thunder god, portrayed as an elderly,  benign fat man, associated with the underworld.  He is most often depicted with a long curling  beard and a long-shafted hammer, which was a  weapon, a cooper’s tool, a fencing instrument,  and an emblem of power, like a scepter.  Suiten   (water god)   In Japanese Buddhist  mythology, water god derived from the Hindu  god Varuna, portrayed as an old man seated on a  makara,   a mythical animal with the body and tail  of a fish and an antelope head and legs. In some  representations Suiten is shown as a young man  holding a sword in his right hand and in his left  hand a snake coiled like a question mark, with  Suiten   915

=== 페이지 933 ===
Crossing the Styx   (Gustave Doré)

=== 페이지 934 ===
five snakes issuing from his hair. Suiten is one  of the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese Buddhist gods and  goddesses adopted from Hindu mythology.  See also:   jiu no o; makara; varuna  Sukkoth   (booths)   In   Judaism,   Feast   of  Booths,   or   Tabernacles,   celebrated   from   the  15th to the 22nd of Tishri (September and  October). Originally it was called the Feast of  Ingathering, when the summer crops and fruits  were gathered. Parts of the feast, according to  the Old Testament (Deut. 16:9–12, Exod. 34:22,  Lev. 23:15–21, Num. 29:12–40), were reaping  of the crops and fruits, special rituals to induce  rain, and dwelling in   sukkoth   (booths), actu -  ally trellis-roofed cabins made of plaited twigs  of carob and oleander and roofed with palm  leaves. Leviticus (23:42–43) says: “All the people  of Israel shall live in shelters for seven days, so  that your descendants may know that the Lord  made the people of Israel live in simple shelters  when he led them out of Egypt. He is the Lord  your God” (Today’s English Version). Of course,  this is a later interpretation, because when the  Israelites wandered through the desert they lived  in tents, not booths; wood and green leaves were  unavailable to them. Sukkot is a joyous festival  and includes a blessing of the sun. Originally,  it was based on a pagan magic rite to rekindle  the decadent sun at the time of the autumnal  equinox and to hail it when it rose at dawn this  folk custom is still found in the Islamic Ashura,  New Year, where children and unmarried men  leap over flames as did the ancient Romans who  leaped over fires and ran through the fields with  blazing torches. Bonfires in European folklore  are part of the ritual, especially at Halloween,  which was the eve of the ancient New Year as  celebrated in Europe.  Sukusendal   In Finnish mythology, a night -  mare spirit who has sexual intercourse with  people while they sleep, appearing as a person  of   the   opposite   sex.   Sometimes   it   replaces  rightful children with changelings. To protect  children, mothers placed a pair of scissors or  some iron object in the cradle; this made the  spirit unable to do evil. If a person went to the  bathhouse late at night, however, he or she  might be killed by the Sukusendal.  Sul   In Celtic mythology, a goddess of the  sun and hot springs, whose temple at Bath,  England, had perpetual fires burning in her  honor. Some ancient Roman writers equated  her with their goddess Minerva as well as with  the Italian goddess Salus, who presided over  health and prosperity.  See also:   minerva  Sumangat   In   Malayan   mythology,   the  human soul, believed to be a spirit copy of the  human form, which leaves the body during  sleep and at death.  Summanus   In   Roman   mythology,   ancient  Italian god associated with evening lightning. He  had a temple near the Circus Maximus where on  20 June sacrifices were offered to him.  summer solstice   The lighting of huge bon -  fires in mid-June is the remnant of a long-stand -  ing custom of such fires in Europe and else -  where, for example, on St. Martin’s Day, Easter,  and at the summer solstice. Such fires were  common in cities and towns in the past, but they  have long been forbidden by officials because  of their fire hazard. Traditionally, young men  and boys collected branches and twigs for the  fire and then covered them over with large tree  trunks so that the fire would be large and visible  from a distance. Remnants of other celebrations  were tossed into the flames, such as the Corpus  Christi wreaths of young girls, and even undesir -  able plants, such as thistles and burning nettles,  fed the flames because it was a popular belief  that this was a means to rid the fields and coun -  tryside of such weeds. While the fire burned, it  was traditional to walk through the smoke, and  in some cases even to jump through the flames  or walk on still-warm ashes. If a young couple  could jump through the fire and still hold hands  summer solstice   917

=== 페이지 935 ===
on landing, they would soon celebrate their wed -  ding, and the marriage would be blessed. Cattle  were driven through the smoke, or through the  ashes on the next day, since that would purify  them. Because it was believed that the smoke  had a purifying effect, there were other means  of spreading the flames and, thus, the smoke.  Wagon wheels were stuffed with straw and set on  fire before rolling them down the hillside. The  famous torch parades of the Nazi period actually  continued these fire customs, since this was the  method by which the blessings of the fire and  smoke could be brought into the streets of cities  and villages.  See also:   martin of tours, st.  Sumsumara-Jataka   Buddhist folktale, num-  ber 208 of the   Jatakas,   or   Birth-Stories of the  Former Lives of the Buddha.  When Brahmadatta ruled as king of Bena -  res, the future Buddha was born a monkey at  the foot of the Himalayas. He grew strong and  sturdy, with a big, muscular frame. He lived near  a bend in the Ganges River close to the forest.  At   the   same   time   a   crocodile   also   lived  nearby in the Ganges. The crocodile’s wife one  day saw the monkey, and impressed by his mas -  sive size, thought how nice it would be to eat his  big heart. She said to her husband, “I want to eat  the heart of that big monkey that lives nearby.”  “Good wife,” said the crocodile, “I live in  the water and he lives on the dry land. How can  we catch him?”  “By hook or by crook,” she replied, “but  catch him we must. If I don’t get him, I’ll die.”  “All right,” said the crocodile, consoling his  wife. “I have a plan. I will give you his heart  to eat.”  Summer solstice celebrations  918   Sumsumara-Jataka

=== 페이지 936 ===
One day while the monkey was sitting on  the bank of the Ganges, after taking a drink of  water, the crocodile drew near.  “Sir Monkey,” said the crocodile, “why do  you live on rotten fruits in this part of the forest?  On the other side of the river there is no end  of mango trees and all sorts of delicious fruits,  some as sweet as honey. Why don’t you let me  carry you over to the other side of the river.”  The   monkey   trusted   the   crocodile   and  climbed   onto   his   back.   After   the   crocodile  had swum well into the center of the river, he  plunged deep into the water, and the monkey  began to flay about in the water.  “Good friend,” cried the monkey, “I will  drown.”  “What, do you think I agreed to carry you  across the river out of the goodness of my  heart?” the crocodile answered. “Not a bit. My  wife wants to eat your heart, and I promised  her that I would get it for her.”  “Friend,” said the monkey, “that’s nice of  you to tell me. But I don’t have my heart with  me. Why, if my heart were inside me when I  jump among the trees, it would be all broken  to pieces.”  “Well,   then,”   said   the   angry   crocodile,  “where do you keep your heart?”  The monkey pointed to a fruit-laden fig  tree in the distance on the shore. “See,” he said,  “there is my heart, hanging on the fig tree with  the fruit.”  “If you show me your heart,” the crocodile  replied, “then I won’t kill you.”  “Take me to the shore, then” said the mon -  key, “and I’ll point it out to you hanging right  in front of your eyes.”  The crocodile took the monkey across the  river and brought him to the fig tree. The  monkey leaped off his back, climbed the fig  tree, and sat on one of its branches.  “You stupid crocodile,” he cried from the  safety of the tree branch, “you thought that I  kept my heart in a tree. You are a fool. I have  outsmarted you. You may keep the fruit for  yourself. You may have a strong body, but you  have no common sense.” The crocodile, feeling  miserably foolish, went back home.  “In this tale of a former life,” said the Bud -  dha, “the crocodile was Devadatta, my life-long  enemy, the lady Cinca was his wife, and I was  the monkey.”  See also:   devadatta; jataka  Sung-ti   wang   In   Chinese   mythology,   the  ruler of the third hell of Ti Yü, the underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Sun   Snarer   In   North   American   Indian  mythology   (Northern,   Plateau,   California,  Great Basin, Plains), a boy who captures the  sun. Because he felt mistreated, a boy lay down,  and the sun burned his robe. Taking pubic hair  from his sister, the boy made a noose and cap -  tured the sun in a snare. Darkness then covered  the earth, and the sun nearly died of stran -  gulation. Various animals attempted to gnaw  through the noose, and one animal succeeded,  thus saving the earth.  Supratika   In Hindu mythology, one of the  eight elephants who protect the eight points of  the compass. The group is called Diggajas.  Surt   (black)   In Norse mythology, a fire giant  who is to enkindle the universe at Ragnarok,  the end of the world, when the gods and giants  will be destroyed. When the world ends at  Ragnarok  Surt travels from the south with the  enemy of twigs [fire],  the sun shines from the swords of the  carrion-gods,  Mountains resound, and ogresses roam,  Humans tread the road to Hel, and the  sky is riven.  He rules Muspellsheim. Surt appears in the  Prose Edda.  See   also:   muspellheim;   prose   edda ;  ragnarok  Surt   919

=== 페이지 937 ===
Surya   (to shine?)   In Hindu mythology, the  sun god, whose chariot is drawn by the Harits  (green), seven mares, or by one seven-headed  horse, Etasha. His wife is Sanjna (conscience),  who is also called Dyu-mayi (the brilliant) and  Maha-virya (the very powerful).  Sanjna was unable to bear the intense love  of Surya, so she gave him Chhaya (shade) as his  mistress. Surya, not noticing that there had been  a substitution, had three children by Chhaya:  Sani, the planet Saturn; the Manu Savarna; and  a daughter, the Tapati (heating) River. Sanjna  then became jealous of Surya’s love for these  children by his mistress and fled, but Surya went  in search of her and brought her back. Their  child was Yama, god of the dead. In Indian art  Surya is portrayed drawn by the Harits, or by  Etasha, surrounded by rays. His charioteer is  Vivaswat (the bright one), also another name for  the sun, who is credited with being the father of  the Aswins, twin gods who precede the dawn.  Closely connected with Surya are Suras, lesser  gods or spirits who are part of his heavenly  court. An earlier Vedic god, Arusha, represent -  ing the morning or rising sun, is considered in  some texts to be another form of Surya.  Among Surya’s many epithets are Dinakara  (the maker of day); Bhaskara (the creator of  light); Mihira (he who waters the earth), refer -  ring to Surya’s drawing the moisture up from  the seas so that clouds are formed; Grahapati  (the lord of the stars); and Karmasakshi (the  witness of men’s deeds).  See also:   aswins; sanjno; yama  Susano   (swift-impetuous male, the impetuous  god)   In   Japanese   Shinto   mythology,   storm  god, brother of the sun goddess Amaterasu. He  was born from the nose of the primeval creator  god Izanagi. He is said to have planted the forests  of Korea from the hairs of his beard. Because of  this he is usually associated with forests.  Susano is both good and evil in Japanese  mythology,   often   displaying   the   traits   of   a  trickster. After he had driven his sister Amat -  erasu to hide in a cave, thereby plunging the  world into darkness, he was exiled by the gods  from the Plain of Heaven to earth. In the   Kojiki  (records of ancient matters) his subsequent fate  is told. He arrived at the river Hi in Izumo,  where he saw some chopsticks floating down  the stream. He thought, therefore, that there  must be people above. Proceeding upstream in  search of them, he discovered an old man and  woman with a young girl between them. They  were crying. He asked who they were.  “I am an earth spirit,” the old man said, “and  my name is Foot-Stroking Elder. My wife’s  name is Hand-Stroking Elder. And this is our  daughter whose name is Mistress Head Comb.”  Susano then asked, “And what is the cause  of the weeping?”  “Once we had eight daughters,” the old  man said, “but there is an eight-forked serpent  that comes each year and eats one. His time has  come round again. That is why we weep.”  “What is the serpent’s form?” Susano asked.  Surya  920   Surya

=== 페이지 938 ===
“Its eyes are as red as the winter cherry. It  has one body with eight heads and tails. On  that body moss grows, and conifers. Its length  extends over eight valleys and eight hills, and  if one looks at the belly, it is constantly bloody  and inflamed.”  Then, looking at the girl, Susano asked,  “Your daughter, will you give her to me?”  The   old   man   replied,   “With   reverence.  However, I do not know your name.”  “I am the elder brother of the goddess Ama -  terasu, and I descended here from heaven.”  “That   being   so,   with   reverence,   she   is  yours,” the old man replied.  Susano took the girl at once, changed her  into   a   multitudinously   close-toothed   comb,  and placed it in his hair.  “Distill a brew of eightfold refined liquor,”  he told the old couple. “Also, make a fence  round about, and in that fence let there be eight  gates; at each gate let there be eight platforms  and on each platform a liquor vat; into each of  which pour some eightfold liquor and wait.”  They did as they were told. The eight-  forked serpent came at the appointed time  and dipped a head into each vat. Then, as the  dragon became drunk, every one of its heads  lay down to sleep. Susano drew his sword and  cut the monster into pieces.  See also:   amaterasu omikami;   kojiki  sutra   (thread or row)   A short verse or apho -  rism, a collection of such sayings, or a work  giving the essence of teachings. In Hinduism,  sutras may explain the Vedas or the teachings of a  philosophical school; they also may be concerned  with secular matters such as Sanskrit grammar  and courtly love. In Buddhism a sutra is a sermon  of the Buddha on a topic of general interest. The  sutra is the earliest piece of Buddhist literature in  China. Most begin with the phrase “Thus was it  heard by me.” In Pali,   sutta.  See also:   vedas  Suttung   (heavy with broth)   In Norse myth-  ology, a giant who possessed Odhrerir, a magic  caldron   containing   a   potion   that   conferred  wisdom and the gift of poetry. The god Odin  seduced Gunlod, the daughter of Suttung, and  obtained the potion from her. When Odin  fled in the form of an eagle, he was pursued by  Suttung. He came so close that Odin could not  get the mead back into the possession of the  Aesir, and therefore he urinated a small por -  tion. This portion makes bad poets.  See also:   baugi; gunlod; kvasir; odhrerir  Svadilfare   (slippery ice?)   In Norse mythol -  ogy, a horse belonging to the giants; father of  Sleipnir, Odin’s horse. Svadilfare worked in  the building of a structure for the gods. The  animal was lured away from his task for sexual  intercourse   by   the   fire-trickster   god,   Loki,  disguised as a mare, and the gods therefore did  not pay the giants because the work was not  completed on time. The myth is told in the  Prose Edda.  See also:   loki;   prose edda ; sleipnir  Svantovit   (strong lord?)   In Slavic mythol -  ogy, war god; in some accounts the father of all  gods, particularly Dazhbog, the sun god, and  Svarogich, the fire god.  Portrayed as a four-faced man wearing a  hat, he held in one hand a bull’s horn contain -  ing wine. Once a year the high priest would  examine the contents of the bull’s horn to see if  any wine remained. If some did, it was a good  omen, meaning the year would be fruitful and  happy. If the wine had diminished considerably,  poor crops and trouble were to be expected.  Each year a captive Christian was chosen by  lottery and sacrificed to the god. When the  Christian   Danish   king   Valdemar   conquered  Arkona in 1168, he destroyed Svantovit’s tem -  ple and dragged the god’s image out to humili -  ate it. Svantovit’s followers waited for their  god to destroy the Christians, but instead the  Christians hacked the idol to pieces and burned  it. A black animal was seen to emerge from  the god’s burning image and flee the Christian  warriors, who said it was the devil.  Svantovit   921

=== 페이지 939 ===
Closely   connected   with   Svantovit   were  other gods, who may have been variants of him,  such as Triglav, portrayed with three heads, his  eyes and lips covered by a golden veil; Ruge -  vit, a warrior god who was armed with eight  swords,   seven   hanging   from   his   girdle   and  the eighth held in his right hand; and Yarovit,  portrayed with a golden shield. Radigast, also a  war god, held a double-edged ax. On his chest  he wore a bull’s head, and on his curly head  was a swan with outstretched wings. One statue  near the river Zbrucz depicts Svantovit as hav -  ing breasts. This may be a later representation  of the deity showing acceptance or tolerance of  women within his sanctuary.  See also:   dazhbog; svarogich  Svarogich   (Svarazic)   (son   of   Svarog)   In  Slavic mythology, god of fire, son of Svarog  (heaven), the sky god, and brother of Dazhbog,  the sun god. One custom that survived long  after paganism was the taboo on cursing while  a domestic fire was being lit. It was believed  that Svarog had given fire and could also take it  away. Svarogich was portrayed wearing a bird -  like helmet on his head and the image of a black  bison’s head on his breast; his left hand held a  double-edged sword. Svarogich was called on  for his prophetic powers, and human beings  were sacrificed to him. After John, bishop of  Mecklenburg, was captured in battle in 1066,  his head was offered to the god.  See also:   dazhbog; svarog  Svyatogor   (Sviatogor) (holy mountains)   In  Russian folklore, a   bogatyr,   or epic hero, with  superhuman strength, who appears in the   bylini,  the epic songs, as well as in folklore. Svyatogor  once boasted that if he could find the place  where all of the earth was concentrated, he  could lift it. He found a small bag on a steppe  and touched it with his staff, but it did not  move. Nor did it move when he touched it with  his finger. Without getting off his horse he  grabbed the bag in his hand, but again it would  not move. He then got off his horse, took the  bag with both hands, and lifted it above his  knees until he sweated blood, but as he did  he sank deep into the earth. The poem ends:  “Svyatogor had indeed found the weight of the  earth, but God punished him for his pride.”  See also:   bylina; ilya muromets  swallow   A small bird noted for its swift and  graceful movement. In Egyptian mythology the  swallow was sacred to Isis as the Great Mother.  In Greek mythology the bird was sacred to  Aphrodite and in Roman mythology, to Venus,  her counterpart. It is also associated with the  Sumero-Semitic goddess Nina. According to  a Scandinavian legend, the bird received its  name when it hovered over the cross of Jesus  crying “Svala! Svala!” (console! console!). In  medieval Christian belief the swallow became  a symbol of the Incarnation and Resurrection  of Christ because the bird disappears in winter  and reappears in spring. Many paintings of the  Nativity depict a swallow nesting under the  eaves, and some Christian artworks portraying  the Crucifixion have a swallow hovering above  the cross offering Jesus consolation, hence the  name “bird of consolation” for the swallow. In  Jewish folklore the swallow is said to have con -  vinced God through a trick that the best food in  the world for the snake would be a frog, not a  man. When the snake found out what the swal -  low did, it leaped up and caught some of its tail.  That is why some swallows have forked tails.  See   also:   aphrodite; frog; isis; snake;  venus  Swamp Fox   In American history and folklore,  popular name of Francis Marion (1732–1795)  of South Carolina, who fought on the side of  the Patriots during the American Revolution.  He used the swamps as his base for guerrilla  warfare. One legend tells how he entertained a  British officer during an exchange of prisoners.  When the officer saw the Americans poorly clad  and eating bark, he returned to his post and later  resigned his commission, feeling he could never  again fight against such dedicated men. G. W.  922   Svarogich

=== 페이지 940 ===
Mark’s primitive painting   Marion Feasting the  British Officer   illustrates the tale. Marion earned  his name Swamp Fox, according to one legend,  because he used the cry of a swamp fox as a sig -  nal, although no such animal exists.  swan   A large aquatic bird with a long slen -  der neck and often white plumage. In Greek  mythology swans were sacred to the muses,  who were associated with the god Apollo. The  best-known Greek myth relating to the swan  concerns Zeus and Leda. Zeus, in the form of  a swan, seduced Leda beside the river Eurotas.  Later Leda laid an egg, which produced Helen,  Castor, and Polydeuces. Swans were honored  in Sparta as symbols of the goddess Aphrodite.  In a late Greek myth Helen is united with the  hero Achilles on a spirit isle in northern Pontus,  where they are served by swans. In medieval  legend Lohengrin is called the Knight of the  Swan and appears in a boat drawn by a silver  swan. The legend was used by Wagner for his  opera   Lohengrin.   In Hindu mythology the god  Brahma often rides a swan. In Celtic mythol -  ogy the swan is a solar symbol and beneficent.  In many European tales girls are turned into  swans.   This   motif   is   used   in   Tchaikovsky’s  great ballet   Swan Lake.   According to legend,  swans sing beautifully before they die, which is  reflected in the term “swan song,” the last work  of a poet or a composer.  See   also:   apollo; brahma; castor and  polydeuces; helen of troy; leda; zeus  Swan   Woman,   The   A mysterious Tatar  bird-woman who appears alongside the hero  Kartaga, with whom she constantly wrestles to  gain the upper hand. He owns two horses, and  they know that the Swan Woman keeps her soul  in a golden casket. It is hidden in a black chest  below a copper rock that rises from the earth  to the heavens. This marks the spot where the  nine seas of the Underworld came together and  became a single sea that rises to the surface of  the earth. The horses run to the copper rock,  dig up the chest, and carry the casket back to  where Kartaga and the Swan Woman are fight -  ing. One of the horses changes into an old man  who opens the casket and kills the seven birds  that fly out. The birds possess the soul of the  Swan Woman, and when the last of the seven is  killed, the Swan Woman falls dead.  swastika   (from   Sanskrit   svástika ;   German:  Hakenkreuz,   “hook-cross”)   An   equilateral  cross with right-angled arms, either left-facing  or right-facing. It is considered a sacred symbol  in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. Hindus  sometimes decorate the swastika with a dot in  each quadrant.  The swastika has a lengthy history. The  motif was used in Neolithic Eurasia as well  as in religious and civil ceremonies in Hindu  countries (Nepal and India). Indian temples as  well as the entrance to houses, weddings, fes -  tivals, and celebrations reveal swastika motifs.  It was also adopted independently by several  Native   American   cultures.   In   the   Western  world the symbol was discovered in the 19th  century by Heinrich Schliemann on the site  of ancient Troy, and it was thus associated  with the migrations of Proto-Indo-Europeans.  Schliemann’s theory was that the swastika was  a “significant religious symbol of our remote  ancestors” that linked Germanic, Greek, and  Indo-Iranian cultures. Schliemann’s work was  soon adopted by   völkisch   (pure German) move -  ments, for which the swastika was a symbol of  “Aryan” identity. Because it was adopted by the  Nazi Party of Adolf Hitler, the swastika has  become associated with fascism, World War II,  and the Holocaust. This political association  has partially eclipsed its historical status.  swine   The   boar,   sow,   and   pig   frequently  appear in world mythology and folklore; some -  times one is confused with another. A boar is the  uncastrated male swine, a pig is a young swine,  and a sow is an adult female swine. The boar  is often a phallic symbol and associated with  Attis, Adonis, Osiris, Set, Vishnu, Ares, Mars,  Tammuz, Odin, and Woden, all male deities. It  swine   923

=== 페이지 941 ===
is also sacred to various goddesses in mythology,  such as Aphrodite, Demeter, and Freya, as well  as the Greek heroine Atalanta. Norse mythol -  ogy has the gods and heroes of Valhalla continu -  ally feasting on Saehrimir, a magic boar who is  constantly replenished after he is eaten. Freya,  the Norse goddess, had a lover, Ottar, who  was a golden boar. In northern cults a boar was  sacrificed to the god Frey at the winter solstice.  Part of that custom continues today in the form  of roast pig at Christmas feasts. In Egyptian  mythology the goddess Nut was sometimes por -  trayed as a sow with her piglets. It was believed  that each morning Nut ate the piglets, that is,  the stars were eaten by the sky goddess. The  Greek goddess Demeter was often portrayed  with a sow at her feet or in her arms, and the  Tibetan goddess Vajravareh was also identified  with the sow. The ancient Hebrews regarded  swine as unclean animals, forbidding the eating  of pork, although some Jews did keep swine. In  medieval Christian belief the pig was a symbol  of lust and sensuality. In Buddhist belief the pig  is also an unclean animal and symbol of lust.  In Chinese folklore the pig is a symbol of the  wealth of the forest, and the Japanese use parts  of the boar as a talisman against snakes. There  are numerous motifs associated with swine in  the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   aphrodite; ares; attis; demeter;  freya; mars; nut; odin; osiris; valhalla;  vishnu; woden  Swithen, St.   (Swithin, Swithun, Swithunus)  (Died 862)   In Christian legend, bishop of  Winchester, chaplain and counselor to King  Egbert of the West Saxons. Feast, 15 July.  The most famous legend connected with  the saint says that if it rains on his feast day,  it will rain for another 40 days. According to  one explanation of the origin of the legend,  St. Swithen asked that his body be buried with  the poor people, outside the church, so that  the “sweet rain of heaven might fall upon his  grave.” This was done, but 100 years later it  was decided to move the saint’s body inside  the church because a workman said he had  a vision of the saint requesting that his body  be   moved.   When   they   attempted   to   move  the remains, however, it began to rain and  continued for some 40 days, which held up  the removal. During the reign of William the  Conqueror, Walkelin, bishop of Winchester,  laid the foundation for a new cathedral church,  and on 15 July 1093, the shrine of St. Swithen  was removed, or translated, from the old to the  new church. The shrine became very famous.  Henry VIII, however, destroyed it along with  numerous others but found that its gold and  jewels were fakes. A new shrine was dedicated  in 1962.  Other saints having legends of rain continu -  ing for some time after their feast days are Sts.  Gervase and Protase, St. Médard in France,  St. Cewydd in Wales, and St. Godeliève in  Flanders. An old English couplet captures the  folk belief:  St. Swithin’s day, gif ye do rain, for forty  day it will remain;  St. Swithin’s day, an ye be fair, for forty  days twill rain nae mair.  Syaha   (hail)   In Hinduism, the exclamation  spoken when an offering is made to the gods.  Syaha is also the name of the wife of the fire  god,   Agni,   where   offerings   are   made   over  fire.  See also:   agni  Swine  924   Swithen, St.

=== 페이지 942 ===
6  925  t  Tagaro   In   Melanesian   mythology,   trickster  and   culture   hero   often   in   conflict   with   his  brother   Suce-mutua.   One   account   tells   how  Tagaro creates edible fruits for humankind while  his evil brother Suce-mutua creates useless ones.  Variants give the name of the evil brother as  Meragubutto. In one tale Tagaro devises a plot  to destroy Meragubutto through a clever trick.  He tells his brother that he wishes to gain more  magic power, but to do so he must be burned  alive in his own house. Meragubutto is only  too pleased to set a torch to his brother’s house  and agrees to help. Tagaro goes into his house  and enters a deep pit that he had dug earlier.  Meragubutto lights the fire and the house goes  up in flames. When the fire dies down, Tagaro  reappears. Impressed and believing that Tagaro’s  magic has been increased by the fire, he resolves  to do the same. He enters his house, which is  then set afire by Tagaro, and is burned to death.  See also:   trickster  Tag-Mar   In Tibetan Buddhism, the Red-  Tiger Devil, portrayed with the head of a tiger  and the body of a man. He was part of a mystery  play which appears to have been intended to  expel the old year and the demons of bad luck.  Tahumers   (Tahuras, Takhmoruw, Takhmorup,  Takhma-Urupa,   Tahmuraf,   Tatmurath)   In  Persian mythology, a king, culture hero, and  slayer of demons, appearing in the epic poem  Shah Namah   by Firdusi. Tahumers succeeded  his father, King Husheng, and continued his  father’s role as teacher of the arts of civiliza -  tion: spinning wool, weaving carpets, training  wild animals, and hunting. In Firdusi’s epic,  Tahumers is often called Diw-bund (binder of  demons) because of his power over the demonic  underworld.  One day the evil spirit, Ahriman, attempted  to   destroy   Tahumers,   but   the   king   “bound  Ahriman by his magic spells and rode him like  a swift steed. He saddled Ahriman and without  respite made him carry him on a tour of the  world.” While the king was away, however,  other demons attempted to take control of  his kingdom. Tahumers returned “girded with  majesty and master of the world. On his shoul -  der he bore a massive club.”  The demon army was poised against Tahum -  ers and his army, but Tahumers “bound up two  thirds of them by magic and struck down the  others with his heavy club.” The demons were  tied together to be executed.  “Do not kill us,” they cried out, “and thou  shalt learn from us a new art.”  Interested in their offer, the king spared  them. The demons immediately brought a pen,  ink, and a book and taught Tahumers how to  read and write. His mind “with learning was  illuminated. The world was blest / with quiet

=== 페이지 943 ===
and repose.   .   .   .” Tahumers reigned for some 30  years more and was succeeded by his son, the  hero Jemshid.  See also:   ahriman; husheng;   shah namah  Taikó-mol   (solitude   walker)   In   North  American   Indian   mythology   (Yuki),   creator  god who appeared on the foam of the primeval  water wearing an eagle headdress. After he had  created the earth by using four   lilkae   (stone  crooks), he went up into the sky.  He makes humans from sticks. One day a  human did something wrong and died. Taikó-  mol buried him and resurrected him the next  day, but he smelled so bad that the people all  got sick. Taikó-mol then decided not to give  them the power to resurrect the dead, but he  did give them the Dance of the Dead Spirits.  See also:   ask and embla  Taillefer   (died 1066)   In medieval history  and   legend,   Norman   warrior   and   minstrel.  Before the Battle of Hastings he sang songs  in   praise   of   Charlemagne   and   Roland.   His  singing encouraged the troops of William the  Conqueror. Taillefer struck the first blow in the  battle and was the first Norman casualty.  See also:   charlemagne; roland  Tailor   and   the   Leshy,   The   In   Slavic  folklore,   the   leshy   is   a   mischievous   forest  spirit who can assume any shape. Once in  the city of Kazan there was a young and  talented itinerant tailor who sought employ -  ment, but he was always unsuccessful. He  was so ragged and thin that he cried out in  desperation: “Even if a   leshy   were to ask me to  sew something, I would do it.” Immediately  after   uttering   these   words   an   elderly   man  comes running to him and asks why he is so  sad. The tailor tells him of his trouble finding  work and the stranger says, “Come home with  me, I have a sheepskin blanket that needs to  be repaired.” The tailor quickly accepts the  offer. When he sees the sheepskin, he knows  that his skill is sufficient to make the repairs.  The wife of the stranger whispers to him  that many tailors have passed through their  house and none had done the job properly.  She tells him to be most careful and never  cut off the end pieces, especially not the feet.  The tailor does the work, and the stranger  is so satisfied that he asks the tailor to make  a matching hat and mittens for his grand -  children. This the tailor also does, much to  the satisfaction of the stranger. After several  months of work, however, the tailor has not  been paid. The wife advises the tailor to reply  to her husband’s request for an accounting of  his work with a simple statement: “You know  what I have done for you and the quality and  value of my work.” The young tailor does  exactly as he has been advised, whereupon the  stranger disappears into his house and comes  out with a beautiful young maiden. He says  “This is your payment: The young damsel  will become your wife, and her dowry will be  a golden coach with three magnificent horses  to pull it.” The young and talented tailor put  his bride into the carriage and drives it into  Kazan, to the house of his mother and father,  whom he has not seen for more than three  years. Word spreads throughout the city, but  soon a village elder comes and says that the  horses have been stolen from him. The young  tailor wishes for the old man who has given  him the horses, thinking that he can explain  everything. In an instant, the old man, the  leshy,   appears and says to the village elder:  “You recognize your horses, but you don’t  even recognize your very own daughter. You  left her alone under an oak tree in the for -  est, and I took her many years ago. She has  lived with me ever since, and the young man  whom you have called a robber will soon be  your son-in-law.” The village elder is reduced  to tears, but then he takes the couple back  to his house, prepares a great wedding feast,  and gives them a gift that is fit for a king. He  then thanks the young tailor for rescuing his  daughter from the hands of the   leshy.  See also:   leshy; shape-shifter  926   Taikó-mol

=== 페이지 944 ===
Taiowa   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Hopi), creative void, force, mindful pres -  ence. Taiowa’s first creation was Sotuknang,  who undertook creation of people with the aid  of Kohyangwuti, the spider woman.  Taishaku Ten   In Japanese Buddhist mythol -  ogy, a god, derived from the Hindu god Indra,  portrayed with three eyes, holding in his right  hand a thunderbolt trident, called Dokko, and  in his left hand a cup. Taishaku Ten is one of  the Jiu No O, 12 Japanese Buddhist gods and  goddesses adopted from Hindu mythology.  See also:   indra; jiu no o  T’ai-shan kun wang   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, ruler of the seventh hell of Ti Yü, the  underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Talassio   In Roman mythology, god of mar -  riage; equated by the Romans with the Greek  god Hymen. He is associated with the myth of  the Rape of the Sabine Women. Livy’s   History  of Rome   (book 1) tells of Talassio.  See also:   hymen; livy  Tale of Boris and Gleb, The   The Russian  prince Vladimir has 12 sons. The two eldest  are named Svyatopolk and Yaroslav, and the  two youngest are named Boris and Gleb. The  older brothers hate the younger ones, who are  Vladimir’s favorites, and thus Svyatopolk plans  to have his two youngest brothers assassinated.  When the aging prince hears of this he sends  Svyatopolk into exile and calls on Boris to  defend him after he is attacked by the enemy  Pechenegs. Fresh with victory, Boris is ready  to return home and become the successor to  Vladimir, who has died, but Svyatopolk quickly  wraps up his father’s body and takes it away and  then seizes the throne for himself. Boris knows  of his brother’s evil ways but decides to be loyal  to him just as he is to his father. He soon learns,  however, that his brother plans to have him  killed. He cannot believe this and rejects the  advice of his soldiers to lay siege to Kiev and  drive out the evil Svyatopolk. Boris says: “If he  sheds my blood and attempts to slay me, then I  shall be a martyr for the lord.” In his tent, Boris  prays so fervently that the assassins wait until  morning to carry out their deed. The willing  martyr, Boris invites them in, and they kill him  and his faithful Hungarian servant, Georgiy,  with their spears and swords. Boris is wrapped  in canvas and taken to Vyshegorod, where he is  buried in the Church of St. Basil the Great.  Svyatopolk next sets out to kill Gleb. He,  too, is lured home with the news that Prince  Vladimir has died and that he should quickly  return. Gleb sets out for Kiev aboard a boat  when he sees Svyatopolk’s warriors coming  toward him. They climb into the boat, draw  their swords, and command Gleb’s cook to  Boris and Gleb  Tale of Boris and Gleb, The   927

=== 페이지 945 ===
kill his master. Unlike Georgiy, who had tried  to protect his master Boris, the cook takes  out his knife and slaughters Gleb. Like his  slain brother, Gleb takes no action to protect  himself. He joins his saintly brother Boris in  heaven, and the two begin to bestow miracu -  lous gifts on the land of Russia and to protect  it as saintly princes. Gleb’s body is thrown on  the riverbank and left to rot, and the mur -  derers return to Kiev to give their report to  Svyatopolk.  In time, the evil brother Svyatopolk is con -  fronted by his brother Yaroslav, and the two  battle against one another. Yaroslav is the vic -  tor, and the evil Svyatopolk flees but is so weak  that he can barely sit on his horse. His soldiers  carry him on a litter, but the wrath of God deals  him a fatal wound that ends his life. In the for -  est where he dies an evil stench can be detected  to this day. Yaroslav then occupies the throne  of Kiev and orders a search for Gleb’s corpse.  Some huntsmen find it completely intact, and it  is taken to the Church of St. Basil the Great and  buried beside Boris. Miracles begin to happen in  the church: Singing angels are heard, healings  take place, and when a soldier steps on the site, a  pillar of fire rises and burns his feet. Like Christ,  Boris and Gleb submitted to the will of God  even though it meant sacrificing their own lives.  Tale of Bygone Years, The   Medieval Russian  chronicle compiled by various hands within 150  years of the adoption of Christianity as the state  religion, from about 1040 to 1118. The chron -  icle relates the stories in the spirit of   dvoeverie  (double faith), a continuation of pagan traditions  after the adoption of Christianity. One ver -  sion of the text is traditionally ascribed to Friar  Nestor (1056–1114), who edited and contrib -  uted to the chronicles. The work comprises a  history of Russia from the creation of the world  through the eventual overthrow of the old Slavic  gods   and   the   coming   of   Christianity   under  Prince Vladimir, who was later canonized by  the Russian Orthodox Church. Rich in legends,  folktales, and myths,   The Tale of Bygone Years   is  also a main source for early Russian history. It is  sometimes called   The Primary Chronicle.  See also:   primary chronicle ; vladimir, st.  tale type   A term first used by the Finnish  folklorist Antti Aarne and further developed by  the American folklorist Stith Thompson. Their  joint publication,   The Types of the Folktale,   first  published in 1910 and revised in 1928 and  again in 1961, established type sets, or recur -  ring patterns, for the plots of individual tales.  The term   type set   as it is used in folklore  studies suggests stories that can be configured  into a set and are thus identifiable because they  share a common plot. Originally Aarne isolated  and   indexed   540   distinguishable   tale   types,  leaving nearly 2,000 slots open for later addi -  tions. When Thompson revised the original  work, he increased the number of identifiable  tale types and subtypes to 3,228.  If one looks at an example of one tale type,  Snow White (identified as Aarne/Thompson, AT  709), one finds five major elements to the tale:  I. Snow White and her Stepmother; II. Snow  White’s Rescue; III. The Poisoning; IV. Help of  the Dwarfs; and V. Her Revival. Motifs for each  element are then listed and associated with their  motif number. Under number I are the follow -  ing individual motifs: Z65.1. Red as blood, white  as snow; L55. Stepdaughter heroine; M312.4.  Prophecy: superb beauty for girl; D1311.6.3.  Sun answers questions; D1311.2. Mirror answers  questions; D1323.1. Magic clairvoyant mirror.  Each tale has thus been broken down into its  basic elements, and the many variant motifs used  to create the story are listed. Studies of individual  tales are listed according to their AT number and  can be found in the standard folklore bibliogra -  phies and electronic databases.  See also:   motif  Taliesin   (radiant   brow)   (sixth   century)   In  medieval Welsh legend, bard who appears in  the Book of Taliesin (in   The Mabinogion ), in  which he is credited with supernatural powers.  See also:   mabinogion, the  928   Tale of Bygone Years, The

=== 페이지 946 ===
Talmud   (study   or   learning)   In   Judaism,  books of civil and religious law written between  500   b.c.e.   and 500   c.e.   The books are not  contained in but are largely derived from the  Pentateuch.   There   are   two   collections,   the  Babylonian and the Jerusalem, or Palestinian,  Talmuds. Part of the Talmud contains   Haggadah  (narration) consisting of myths, legends, and  fables to explain various beliefs, rites, and parts  of Scripture.  See also:   bible, the  Talonhaltija   (guardian   spirit)   In   Finno-  Ugric   mythology,   spirit   believed   to   be   the  ghost of the first person to die in a house, or  else the ghost of the first person who kindled a  fire in the house. The   talonhaltija   is beneficent,  looking after the welfare of the family.  Talus   (Talos) (brass or sufferer?)   In Greek  mythology, a man created from brass by the  smith-god Hephaestus. Talus was given to King  Minos of Crete to protect the island. Every  time a stranger appeared Talus would greet the  visitor, becoming red hot and embracing the  person to death. When the Argonauts arrived  he threw rocks at them. Eventually he was  killed by Poeas, an Argonaut. Another person  named Talus was a nephew of Daedalus and  credited with the invention of the saw and the  compass. Daedalus, however, was quite jealous  of Talus’s gifts and killed him by hurling him  down the Acropolis of Athens.  See also:   argonauts; daedalus; hephaes -  tus; minos  Tamar   (palm   tree)   In   the   Bible,   O.T.,  Absalom’s sister, daughter of King David; she  was raped by Amnon, another of King David’s  sons. Amnon was killed by Absalom (2 Sam.  1:32).   Robinson   Jeffers’s   Tamar,   and   Other  Poems   is based on the biblical tale but deals with  a modern Tamar who lives on the Monterey  coast.   She   seduces   her   brother   and   brings  destruction to her whole family.  See also:   absalom; david  Tambora   In Australian mythology, head -  less female beings who dragged men to their  dark caves.  Tamburlaine the Great   (Timur the Lame)  (1333–1405)   In medieval history and legend,  despot who ruled by terror over various parts  of Asia and India. His capital was Samarkand.  He appears in Marlowe’s first play   Tamburlaine  the Great   (1587), an epic play in two parts writ -  ten in blank verse.  Tam-Din   In Tibetan Buddhism, a “wrathful  entity,” often portrayed with a horse’s head;  derived from the Hindu god Haya-griva.  See also:   haya-griva  Tammuz   (Dumuzi) (rightful son?)   In Near  Eastern mythology (Babylonian), god of corn  and vegetation; he died each winter and was  resurrected each spring; originally a Sumerian  deity, Dumuzi.  Tammuz was originally a sun god, the son  of Ea and the goddess Siduri and the lover or  husband of the great goddess Ishtar. His love  affair and death are told in the ancient poem  Ishtar’s Descent into the Underworld,   known in  various versions throughout the Near East, in  which the goddess offers her youthful lover to  be killed in place of herself. In Canaan Tammuz  was called Adonai (my lord), and a great festi -  val, celebrating his death and resurrection, was  observed in various Near Eastern cities. Gebal  was the chief seat of the spring festival in Phoe -  nicia. “Gardens of Adonis” were planted—pots  filled with earth and cut herbs (which soon  withered away) in which wooden figures of  the god had been placed. Wailing women tore  their hair and lacerated their breasts during the  seven days of the festival. The Hebrew prophet  Ezekiel saw women in the north gate of the  temple “weeping for Tammuz” (Ezekiel 8:14).  See also:   dumuzi; ea; ezekiel; ishtar  Tancred   (thought, advice)   (Died 1112   c.e. )  In medieval legend, Norman hero, son of Otho  Tancred   929

=== 페이지 947 ===
the Good and Emma, sister of Robert Guiscard.  Tancred served under Godfrey de Bouillon in  the First Crusade. Tancred appears in Tasso’s  Jerusalem Delivered,   Rossini’s opera   Tancredi,  Goethe’s   Tasso,   and   the   earlier   Monteverdi  work   Il combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda.  See also:   rinaldo  Tane   (male)   In Polynesian mythology, cre -  ator god, lord of the forest, son of Atea and  Papa, father and husband of the goddess Hina.  According to some accounts, Tane tried to  have sexual intercourse with his mother, but  she rejected his advances. He then left home  in search of a wife. He had sexual intercourse  with various beings, producing such offspring as  rocks, streams, trees, and reptiles. Not satisfied  with any of his children because they did not  have his human shape, he formed a woman out  of soft red sand and breathed life into her. He  called her Hina and married her. She is regarded  as the first woman in Polynesian mythology and  is associated with the moon and with fertility,  and she guards the entrance to the land of the  dead. In some accounts she is married to Tiki,  the first man, and founded a royal line. Hina was  portrayed with two faces. Tane’s sexual organ  was also called Tiki. Tiki appears in some leg -  ends as the creator of the first woman.  In Hawaiian mythology Tane is called Kane  and is known as a major god who possessed  a gigantic penis. In many myths his enemy is  Kanaloa, the squid god. Kane’s home is Kane-  huna-moku (hidden land of Kane).  See also:   adam and eve; atea and papa; tiki  Tangaloa   In Polynesian mythology, creator  god, who is also known as Ta’aroa, Tangaroa,  and Kanaloa.  According to one Samoan myth, Tangaloa  lived alone in a limitless, formless void in which  there was neither light nor motion. One day  he cast down a rock, which became Manu’s  Groves, the main island in the Samoan group.  Next he made the remaining islands. Tangaloa’s  bird, Tuli, flying over the island in search of  rest, pointed out to the god that the land lacked  shade. Tangaloa gave Tuli a creeping vine for  shade. When the vine withered and decom -  posed, maggots formed, eventually becoming  the first man and woman.  According to a Tahitian account, Tangaloa  created himself, having no mother or father, and  lived in a shell called Rumia (upset). After a time  he became bored and slipped out of the shell,  only to find a totally dark void, so he found a new  shell in which to hide. For thousands of eons he  remained in the shell in deep contemplation.  Then, using the new shell for the foundation  and the old shell for the dome, he formed the  sky. Calling himself Te Tumu (the source), he  created various gods, whom he decked out with  red and yellow feathers. When the feathers fell  to the ground, they turned into trees and plants.  Tangaloa then commissioned some artisan gods  to fashion “a good-looking boy,” though some  variants say he first created woman.  Another tradition says Tangaloa and the  god Akea Wakea had a dispute about which  one was the father of a child born to the god -  dess Papa. To settle the argument, Papa cut  the child in half, giving a half to each god.  Akea Wakea threw his half into the sky, and it  became the sun. Tangaloa held his half until it  decomposed. He then threw it into the sky, and  it became the moon.  See also:   atea and papa  Tanner of Tamworth, The   In medieval  legend, English hero who mistook Edward IV  for a highwayman. After an altercation they  changed horses, the king giving his hunter for  the Tanner’s cob (a short-legged, stocky horse),  worth about four shillings. As soon as the tan -  ner mounted the king’s horse, it threw him, and  the tanner gladly paid a sum of money to get  back his old mount. King Edward then blew  the hunting horn, and his courtiers gathered  round. “I expect I shall be hanged for this,”  cried Tanner. King Edward, however, gave him  the manor of Plumpton Park, with an income  of 300 marks a year.  930   Tane

=== 페이지 948 ===
Tannhäuser   (dweller in the house of Tann, a  name for Venus)   (13th century)   In medieval  German history and legend, a knight who fell  in love with the pagan goddess Venus. His tale  is told in many ballads.  Tannhäuser was a minnesinger. One day he  wandered near Hörselberg in Thuringia and  heard the alluring song of Venus. He entered  the Venusberg, her home, through a subterra -  nean cave. He stayed with the goddess, “yield -  ing to Venus’s witching spells.” After a while,  however, his sexual appetite was dulled, and he  fled the goddess.  Wishing to return to his betrothed, he felt  guilty because of his passion for Venus. He  decided to go to Rome and ask the pope for  forgiveness.  “No,” said Pope Urban, “you can no more  hope   for   mercy   than   this   dry   staff   can   be  expected to bud again.”  Distraught, the knight left. On the third  day after the pope had dismissed him, the papal  staff bloomed. Realizing his error, the pope  sent to find Tannhäuser, but the knight had  returned to Venus.  Wagner’s opera   Tannhäuser   (1845) is based  on the medieval legend. The composer has  the hero return from the Venusberg to the  court of the landgrave of Thuringia, where  Elizabeth, his betrothed, has remained true to  Tannhäuser. At a great singing tournament,  Tannhäuser’s friend Wolfram von Eschenbach  sings of spiritual love, and Tannhäuser sings  of erotic love. Wolfram then mentions the  name   of   Elizabeth,   and   Tannhäuser   rejects  Venus, who appears briefly on the mountain,  singing seductively. A funeral procession then  approaches. On the bier is Elizabeth. When  Tannhäuser sees her, he dies. The next morn -  ing, pilgrims arrive from Rome bearing the  pope’s staff, which has miraculously bloomed.  The blooming staff is a common motif in folk  literature (F971.1).  See also:   motif; venus; venusberg  Tano   In African mythology (Togoland), the  river god.  God had two sons, Tano and Bia. The older,  Bia, was more obedient, and God wanted to  give him the fertile lands to control. Tano was  to receive the barren lands. A goat told Tano  of God’s plan. So Tano disguised himself as  Bia and arrived at God’s house before Bia had  a chance to get there. God mistakenly gave the  fertile lands to Tano and could not later revoke  what he had given.  In another myth, a hunter, after trying for  many days, failed to catch anything. He finally  hit an antelope, which was transformed into the  god Tano. Tano quelled the hunter’s fears, offer -  ing to protect him. As they traveled together,  they came upon Death. Death opposed Tano’s  traveling with the hunter. Tano resented Death’s  interference in the matter. The two then started  singing songs to one another in a contest. Nei -  ther one, however, would agree that the other  was better. At last they agreed that when a man  became ill, the outcome of that illness would  depend on which of the two got to him first. If  Tano arrived first, the man would live, but if it  were Death, the man would die.  The Return of Tannhäuser to  Venusberg   (Aubrey Beardsley)  Tano   931

=== 페이지 949 ===
Frontispiece of   Venus and Tannhäuser   (Aubrey Beardsley)  932   Tano

=== 페이지 950 ===
Tantalus   (lurching or most wretched)   In  Greek mythology, king of Sipylos in Lydia; son  of Zeus; father of Pelops and Niobe; grandfather  of Atreus and Thyestes; punished by the gods  for the murder of his son. At first the gods loved  Tantalus, inviting him to their numerous feasts.  This honor went to his head, and he decided  to test the gods’ knowledge. He killed his son  Pelops and served him at a banquet, hoping to  prove that the gods could not tell the differ -  ence between human and animal flesh. None  of the gods ate the food except for Demeter,  who absentmindedly consumed part of the boy’s  shoulder. Later Pelops was restored to life and  his missing shoulder blade replaced by an ivory  one, but Tantalus was sent to Tartarus, the  lowest section of Hades, the underworld, to be  punished. Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11) describes  Tantalus as being in water up to his neck but  unable   to   quench   his   thirst   because   as   he  reaches for the water, it recedes. Also, close by  is a fruit-laden tree, but when he tries to eat, the  fruits vanish. According to Pindar, Tantalus is  suspended in the air, while above his head hangs  a massive rock, ready to fall and crush him at  any   moment.   Euripides   uses   elements   from  both versions. Some accounts say that Tantalus  was punished for revealing a secret of Zeus, or  stealing the nectar and ambrosia of the gods, or  taking a dog of Zeus. The word   tantalize   comes  from the myth.  See also:   atreus; demeter; hades; niobe;  odyssey, the ; pelops; zeus  Tanuki   Bozu   In Japanese folklore, badger  disguised as a Buddhist monk. He is believed to  bring luck and wealth and is often enshrined in  Japanese stores, though he may also take on vari -  ous forms to waylay, deceive, or annoy travelers.  T’ao t’ieh   (ravenous)   In Chinese folk art,  an ogre mask of an animal having feline char -  acteristics. Some scholars believe it depicts a  stylized tiger because the tiger was the guard -  ian of graves in ancient China and fought off  evil spirits. Others see it as symbolic of the  dualistic concepts of life and death, light and  darkness. It also has been interpreted as sym -  bolic of death, which swallows up all things in  its gluttonous mouth.  Tapio   (worker   in   Tvaps,   i.e.,   hunting)   In  Finnish   mythology,   forest   god.   His   wife,  Meilikki, his son Nyyrikki, and his daughter, the  wind spirit Tuulikki, were all spirits of the forest.  Tapio’s realm was called Tapiola, which is used  in the Finnish epic poem   The Kalevala   for the  forest in general and is almost synonymous with  Metsola   (woodland). Sometimes Tapio aided the  wanderer in the forest, but if he was in a mis -  chievous mood, he would tickle or smother the  person to death. His mysterious spirit and nature  inspired Sibelius’s last major symphonic compo -  sition,   Tapiola,   which was first performed in New  York under the conductor Walter Damrosch.  Another name for Tapiola is Kuippana (king of  the forest), who was a minor tutelary genius.  See also:   kalevala, the  Tara   (she who carries across [to Nirvana])   In  Tibetan Buddhism, a female entity, especially  one of two deified wives of King Sron Tsan  Gampo, known as the White Tara and the Green  Tara; sometimes called Dölma (mother).  One   wife,   Princess   Wen-ch’eng,   deified  as the White Tara, is portrayed as an Indian  woman with a white complexion, seated and  holding in her left hand a long-stemmed lotus  flower. She has seven eyes—the eye of fore -  knowledge in the forehead, two others on the  face, and one in each palm and each sole. She  is called the Seven-Eyed White Tara and uses  her eyes to see and aid the suffering. She is  worshipped by the Mongols.  The second wife, a Nepalese, was deified  as the Green Tara and portrayed as a beauti -  ful Indian woman with uncovered head and a  green complexion, seated on a lotus, with her  left leg pendant and holding in her left hand a  long-stemmed lotus flower.  Tara   933

=== 페이지 951 ===
The   following   injunction   is   included   in  her worship: “If we worship this sublime and  puresouled goddess when we retire at night  and arise in the morning, then all our fears and  worldly anxieties will disappear and our sins  will be forgiven. She—the conqueror of myriad  hosts—will strengthen us. She will do more  than this! She will convey us directly to the end  of our transmigration—Buddha and Nirvana.”  Green Tara is regarded as being born from  a teardrop of Avalokiteshvara, the Bodhisattva  of Infinite Compassion. Tara transcends social  distinctions and offers a personal relationship  to her devotees. Aside from these two Taras,  the Tibetans have a list of 21 others.  See also:   avalokiteshvara; bodhisattva;  nirvana  Tara   (star)   In   Hindu   mythology,   wife   of  Brihaspati, raped by the moon god Soma. As  a result of the rape a war broke out between  the gods and demons. It was ended with the  intervention of the god Brahma. Tara was given  back to her husband, but she bore a son, Budha  (he who knows), whose father was Soma.  See also:   brahma; brihaspati; soma  Taranis   In Celtic mythology, a thunder god  mentioned by ancient Roman writers and equat -  ed with their god Jupiter. Human sacrifices were  offered to the god, who originally may have been  a goddess of death. Taranis’s symbol was a wheel.  He became the basis for Lloyd Alexander’s Welsh  series of juvenile fiction   Taran Wanderer   (1980).  Tarchon   In Roman mythology, ancestor of  the Etruscan Tarquins, leader of the emigrants  from Lydia, and founder of Tarquinii and other  Etruscan cities. In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 8) he  joined the Trojan hero Aeneas as an ally.  See also:   aeneas;   aeneid, the  Tarkshya   In Hindu mythology, a fantastic  animal, sometimes bird or horse, often equated  with the fantastic bird Garuda. In some myths  Tarkshya is called the father of Garuda.  See also:   garuda  Tarnkappe   (camouflage   cloak)   In   Norse  mythology, German name for the magic cap  or cloak that rendered its wearer invisible or  unrecognizable by transformation into anoth -  er form. Sigurd in the Norse   Volsunga Saga  and Siegfried, his German counterpart in the  Nibelungenlied,   both have such caps. In Richard  Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen   it is called  tarnhelm   and is at first the possession of the  dwarf Alberich, but it is stolen from him by  Loge (Loki) and Wotan (Odin).  See also:   nibelungenlied ;   ring des nibe -  lungen, der ; siegfried; sigurd  Tarpeia   In   Roman   history   and   legend,   a  vestal virgin, betrayer of the Romans; daughter  of Spurius Tarpeius, Roman commander of the  garrison stationed at the Capitol at the time of  the Sabine Wars. Meeting Tatius, leader of the  Sabines, Tarpeia was either bribed or volun -  teered to open the gates of the city’s citadel if  Tatius would give her what his men “wore on  their shield-arms,” according to Livy’s   History  of Rome   (book 1). Expecting rich gold bracelets,  Tarpeia was not only given the bracelets but  had the shields thrown at her, knocking her to  the ground. Then other soldiers crushed her to  death with their shields. The Tarpeian Rock,  from which convicted criminals were flung to  their death, is said to be named after Tarpeia.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 14) tells one ver -  sion of the myth.  See also:   ovid  Tarquin   In   Arthurian   legend,   a   “recreant  knight” who held some knights of the Round  Table prisoner. Sir Lancelot met a lady who  asked him to free the knights from Tarquin’s  power. Coming to a river, Lancelot saw a cop -  per basin suspended from a tree. He struck it so  hard that it broke. This brought out Tarquin. A  battle ensued in which Lancelot killed Tarquin.  Then some “threescore knights and four, all of  the Table Round,” were freed.  See also:   arthur; lancelot of the lake;  round table  934   Tara

=== 페이지 952 ===
Tarquinius Priscus   (Reigned 616–579   b.c.e. )  Roman history and legend, fifth king of Rome,  who built temples on the Capitol and started  the city’s drainage system using Etruscan work -  men. He is said to have brought the Sibylline  Books, collections of prophecy, to Rome.  Tartarus   (far   west?)   In   Greek   mythology,  the lowest section of the underworld, where the  most evil were punished. Among its inhabitants  were the rebellious Titans, Ixion, Sisyphus,  Tantalus, and Tityus. The region is described in  Homer’s   Odyssey   (book 11), Hesiod’s   Theogony,  Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses  (book 4), and Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Hell).  See also:   aeneid, the ; hesiod; ixion; odys -  seus; ovid; sisyphus; tantalus; titans  Tathagata   (thus   come,   thus   gone?)   Title  of the Buddha used by himself and his fol -  lowers. It may mean, “He who has come and  gone as former Buddhas,” that is, teaching  the same truths, following the same paths to  the same goal. Another interpretation is “one  who has attained full realization of Suchness,”  that is, one who has realized that things are  such-as-they-are,   so   that   he   neither   comes  from anywhere nor does he go anywhere. The  implication is that Buddha was not the founder  of Buddhism but was made to appear as one  of a series (of four or seven) equally perfect  Buddhas.  Taui’goad   (wounded   knee)   In   African  mythology (Hottentot), rain god, creator, who  “died” on several occasions but continues to  return to life. One day Taui’goad had a battle  with Gaunab, a great Hottentot chief. Gaunab  won each battle, but Taui’goad kept growing  stronger until he finally killed his opponent.  Just before he died Gaunab hit Taui’goad’s  knee, and the god has been known as Taui’goad  (wounded knee) ever since.  Taurt   (Taueret, Rert, Rertu, Apet, Opet) (the  fat one)   In Egyptian mythology, hippopota -  mus goddess. She was a patron of childbirth  and maternity, often identified with the god -  dess Hathor. The Greeks rendered her name  Thoueris. She was both a beneficent deity, as  when she protected the dead, or an avenging  deity, when she was the female counterpart of  the evil god Set. Egyptian art portrays her as  a female hippopotamus with distended teats  standing upright on her back legs. Taurt’s front  foot rests on the   sa,   a sign of protection rep -  resented by a stylized life preserver, made of  papyrus and worn by river travelers.  See also:   hathor; hippopotamus; set  Tawiskaron   (flint)   In North American In-  dian mythology (Mohawk), an evil being who  attempts to build a bridge to allow wild animals  to travel so that they can prey on humans.  These beasts are associated with the famine  that winter can bring. He is foiled in his evil  design by Sapling, who sends a blue jay with a  cricket’s hind legs stuck in its mouth to frighten  Tawiskaron. When Tawiskaron sees the sight,  he believes it is human legs; he flees, and his  bridge disappears.  Tchue   In   African   mythology   (Bushman),  cultural founder hero who gave people the gift  of fire. He is capable of transforming himself  into various animals and forms such as a fly,  lizard, elephant, bird, or water hole.  Tcoxoltcwedin   In North American Indian  mythology (Hupa), creator god who sprang  from the earth. When he was born, there was a  ringing noise like the striking together of met -  als. Before he was born, smoke was seen, which  settled on a mountainside. When pieces of rot -  ten wood fell into his hands, fire was created.  Tefnut   (Tefenet) (the spitter?)   In Egyptian  mythology, goddess of moisture. She and her  twin brother, Shu, constituted the first couple  of the Ennead, which was a system of gods  worshipped in Egypt.  According to one myth, the primeval sun  god created Tefnut and Shu. He is said to  have masturbated and then swallowed his own  Tefnut   935

=== 페이지 953 ===
semen, sneezing out Shu and spitting out Tef -  nut. According to another account, they came  from the spittle of his mouth. Then, with Shu,  Tefnut conceived the sky goddess, Nut, and  the earth god, Geb, and they in turn bore the  great gods Osiris, Isis, Nephthys, and Set, thus  completing the great Ennead of Heliopolis.  Together with Shu, Tefnut helped support the  sky and each day received the new sun as it  rose in the east. Sometimes she represented the  power of sunlight.  Tefnut, however, could also be ferocious.  Her original home was said to be the Nubian  deserts, where she roamed drenched in the  blood of her enemies. When Thoth, the god of  wisdom, upbraided her for abandoning Egypt  and leaving the country desolate, Tefnut wept  great tears, but her tears soon turned to wrath,  and she changed into a bloodthirsty lioness  whose mane smoked with fire and whose face  glowed   like   the   sun.   Egyptian   art   portrays  Tefnut as a woman with the head of a lioness  surmounted by a disk or the uraeus or both.  See also:   ennead; geb; isis: nephthys; nut;  osiris; set; shu; thoth; uraeus  Telegonus   (born far away)   In Greek mythol -  ogy, son of Odysseus and Circe; brother of Ardea  and Agrius; half-brother of Latinus. Telegonus  does not appear in Homer, but in Ovid and  Plutarch, who narrate that Telegonus acciden -  tally killed his father, Odysseus. Telegonus was  either shipwrecked or landed in Ithaca in search  of his father. When he landed he began to plun -  der the land. Odysseus and his son Telemachus  came out to defend the land, and in the ensuing  fight, Telegonus killed Odysseus with a lance  given him by his mother, Circe. He then dis -  covered that the man he killed was his father.  Odysseus’s body was taken then by Telegonus,  Penelope, and Telemachus and buried on Aeaea.  Athena then commanded Telegonus to wed  Penelope. Their son was named Italus, after  which Italy is named. Telegonus and Penelope  eventually went to the Blessed Isles, where they  were said to live forever.  See   also:   odysseus;   ovid;   penelope;  telemachus  Telemachus   (far-away   battle)   In   Greek  mythology,   son   of   Odysseus   and   Penelope,  who went in search of his father and aided him  in the slaughter of Penelope’s suitors. His story  appears in Homer’s   Odyssey.   In post-Homeric  myth, he married either Nausicaa, Circe, or  Cassiphone, a daughter of Circe, and had a  son, Latinus. Some accounts say he murdered  Circe and fled to Italy. Telemachus appears in  Fénelon’s   novel   Télémaque   and   inspired   the  portrait of Stephen Dadalus in James Joyce’s  novel   Ulysses.  See also:   odysseus;   odyssey, the ; penelope  Telephus   (suckles   by   a   doe)   In   Greek  mythology, king of Mysia, son of Heracles and  Auge. Abandoned by his mother, Telephus was  raised on Mount Parthenius by a doe or goat  and later adopted by King Teuthras. Telephus  was wounded by Achilles’ lance and could only  be healed by the same lance. He promised to  lead the Greeks to Troy if Achilles cured him,  which he did, but he refused to take part in the  battle because his wife, Astyoche, was a sister of  Troy’s King Priam.  See also:   achilles; auge; heracles; priam;  troy  Telepinus   In   Near   Eastern   mythology  (Hittite), god of agriculture who left the earth  in anger, causing it to dry up and all life to  cease reproduction. His father, the storm god,  cried out: “Telepinus has flown into a rage and  taken every good thing with him.” The gods  sent an eagle to search for Telepinus, but he  could not be found, so Hannahanna, the Great  Mother goddess, asked the weather god himself  to search for his son. When the weather god  had no success, Hannahanna sent a bee to find  Telepinus. The bee found Telepinus and stung  him to wake him up, but that merely made  Telepinus angrier. Kamrusepas, the goddess of  magic and healing, finally pacified Telepinus  936   Telegonus

=== 페이지 954 ===
with her medicine. The god returned home,  and life was restored to the land and people.  See also:   great goddess  Telesphorus   (he who brings to an end)   In  Greek mythology, an attendant of Asclepius,  the god of medicine, who gave strength to  recovering patients.  See also:   asclepius  Tem   (Tum, Temu, Atem, Atum, Atmu)   In  Egyptian mythology, a primeval, creator god;  one of the most ancient deities worshipped  in Egypt.  The priests of Anu, or Heliopolis, made Tem  the head of their company of gods, identifying  him with a form of the sun god. Tem appears  in The Book of the Dead as the evening or  setting sun (Khepera is the morning sun and  Ra the noonday sun). In the Theban recension  of the book, Tem is identified with Osiris as  being one of the gods whose flesh never saw  physical corruption. Many of the attributes  of Tem were absorbed by Khepera, who was  also a creator god. In later times the Egyptians  named a female counterpart of Tem, calling her  Temt or Temit. According to one myth, Tem  was responsible for the primeval flood, which  covered the entire earth and destroyed all of  mankind except those in Tem’s boat.  Egyptian art portrays Tem as a man, some -  times a king, wearing the crowns of Upper and  Lower Egypt. Like many other gods, he carries  in his hands the scepter and ankh, emblem of  life.  See also:   ankh; book of the dead, the;  khepera; osiris; ra  Tembo   In   African   legend,   a   king   of   the  Buganda of Uganda. Tembo was the father of  two children, a son and a daughter. Two rivers  were supposed to have sprung from the bodies  of these children. Tembo’s son eventually mar -  ried his sister.  Tengri   (Tangara, Tengeri, Tura) (god, heaven)  In Siberian mythology, the sky god and a gen -  eral term for God among the Mongolians. He  created humans from fire, wind, and water and  then breathed life into them. There are two  aspects to the Mongolian sky god, Blue Tengri,  who represents the power of the various phe -  nomena of the sky that bring fruitfulness to the  earth, and Eternal Tengri, who rules over the  fate of mankind. The two terms are often used  interchangeably.  Tengu   (long-nose)   In   Japanese   folklore,  trickster spirits whose bodies are half human  and half bird, with wings and claws and fre -  quently a large beak or elongated nose. The  long-nosed variety are called   kohola tengu ; the  beaked   version,   karasu   tengu   (crow   tengu).  They are minor deities and may be descendants Tem  Tengu   937

=== 페이지 955 ===
of Susano. They inhabit trees in mountainous  areas. According to legend they are born from  eggs, from which they are often seen emerging,  and live in colonies with one tengu in charge.  See also:   susano  tennin   In Japanese-Chinese Buddhist mythol -  ogy, beautiful winged maidens, inhabitants of a  Buddhist paradise. They soar into the air, usual -  ly clasping lotus flowers or playing instruments.  In Chinese tradition they wear feather robes  of five colors. In Japanese folklore Hagoromo  (feathery robe) was a tennin who left her feather  robe on earth. One day she came down to the  forest of Mio, near Okitsu. She admired the  view and then, after hanging her feather robe on  a pine tree, started to dance on the sandy beach.  A fisherman, Hakurio, happened to pass by and  thought her a beautiful woman. His looks, how -  ever, frightened Hagoromo, who fled, minus her  robe, which is still preserved in a nearby temple.  Her tale is the subject of a No play.  See also:   no  Tenten and Caicai   In the mythology of  the Araucanian Indians of Chile, two serpents  who   fought,   causing   a   flood   that   covered  the earth. The people sought shelter on two  mountains, which were raised by Tenten as  the evil Caicai raised the water level. The  people on one of the mountains were turned  into animals, fish, and birds. In a variant of  this flood myth, the waters came about by  the evil work of the Guecubus demons. This  time the people fled to two mountains, called  Tenten and Caicai (the names of the serpents  in the other myth). The god Guinechen raised  the mountains to save the people from the  ever-rising waters.  See also:   guecubus; guinechen  Teresa   of   Ávila,   St.   (summer,   harvest?)  (1515–1582)   In   Christian   legend,   Spanish  mystical writer and founder of the discalced, or  barefoot, Carmelites. Patron of lacemakers and  second patron saint of Spain by order of King  Philip II. Invoked by those in need of grace.  Feast, 15 October.  Born of a part-Jewish family, St. Teresa’s  father was Don Alphonzo Sanchez de Cepeda.  Her mother’s name was Beatrix. Her father  was of a serious nature, but her mother tended  to be of a romantic frame of mind. The young  girl inherited both aspects in her personality  and vascilated between the two. As a young girl  of nine she decided she wanted to die a martyr.  She set out for the “land of the Moors” but  was caught by her family. Eventually her father  thought it best to send her to a convent, but she  did not like the religious life and would often  become ill, sometimes near death.  The   writings   of   St.   Jerome,   who   wrote  numerous letters on how women were to behave,  caught her imagination. She writes in her great  Life,   or   Autobiography,   that for 20 years she did  not find the repose for which she had hoped.  But she adds, “At length God took pity on me. I  read the   Confessions of St. Augustine.   I saw how he  had been tempted, how he had been tried, and  how he had at length conquered.”  Tengu  938   tennin

=== 페이지 956 ===
About 1561, against great opposition that  lasted the remainder of her life, she set about  reforming   the   Carmelite   order,   which   had  fallen into slack ways. The first convent of the  new, reformed rule had eight nuns. By the end  of her life there were some 30 convents estab -  lished according to her rule. Toward the end of  her life she was frequently ill. She died in her  own convent of St. Joseph. In her last moments  she repeated a verse from the psalm   Miserere,  “A broken and contrite heart, O Lord, thou  wilt not despise.”  The   most   famous   representation   of   the  saint is the   Ecstasy of St. Teresa   by Bernini. In  her   Life   she tells how an angel plunged into  her breast a golden spear, symbolizing Divine  Love. When the spear was withdrawn, she was  “utterly consumed by the great love of God.”  As depicted by Bernini in the Cornaro Chapel,  Santa Maria della Vittoria in Rome, the great -  est   baroque   sculpture,   the   saint   ecstatically  sinks back onto a cloud, her eyes nearly closed,  her lips parted in a soft moan, evocative of  repose after orgasm. Rubens painted   St. Teresa  Delivering Bernadin de Mendoza from Purgatory,  in which a rather full-faced saint is confronted  by a half-clad Christ, while sinners at the bot -  tom of the painting are enveloped in flames.  See also:   jerome, st.; joseph, st.  Terminus   (limit)   In Roman mythology, god  of boundaries. Stones, which marked boundar -  ies, were under the protection of Terminus.  Any person removing a stone could legally be  killed. His festival, Terminalia, was 23 February,  with sacrifices around the boundary stones.  Terminalis was an epithet of Jupiter, and the  god Terminus may be another form of Jupiter.  Erasmus, the great Renaissance humanist, used  a figure of Terminus for his emblem to signify  readiness for death.  Terpsichore   (rejoicing   in   the   dance)   In  Greek   mythology,   one   of   the   nine   Muses,  the Muse of Dance; daughter of Zeus and  Mnemosyne. Some accounts say she was the  mother of the Sirens by Achelous. Her symbols  were a laurel crown and a lyre.  See also:   achelous; laurel; muses; sirens;  zeus  Terra or Tellus Mater   (mother earth)   In  Roman mythology, ancient Italian mother god -  dess invoked during birth, marriage, and earth -  quakes. Her feast, Fordicidia, was 15 April.  Sacrifices   to   her   were   made   13   December,  when the dead returned to Mother Earth. Her  temple in Rome was dedicated in 268   b.c.e.  Tethys   (disposer or the nourisher?)   In Greek  mythology, Titaness; daughter of Uranus and  Gaea; wife of her brother, Oceanus; mother  of Asia, Callirrhoë, Clymene, Clytia, Doris,  Europa,   Eidyia,   Electra,   Inachus,   Meliboea,  Perseis, Pleione, Proteus, Styx, the rivers and  the 3,000 Oceanides. Milton’s   Comus   refers to  the deity’s “grave majestic pace.”  See also:   callirrhoë; doris; electra; gaea;  oceanus; proteus; styx; uranus  Tezcatlipoca   (mirror that smokes)   In Tol-  tec   mythology,   creator   trickster   god   wor -  shipped by warriors and magicians, opposed to  Quetzalcoatl.  Tezcatlipoca formed the thin air and dark -  ness, presiding over darkness and night. Dreams  and the phantoms of gloom were sent by this  god. His sacred animals were those associated  with night, such as the skunk and the coyote.  This demonic nature is commented on by Fray  Bernardino de Sahagún in his   Historia general  de las cosas de Nueva España   (1570–1582). He  says that Tezcatlipoca “caused wars, enmities  and discords.” Sahagún then gives some of  the numerous titles applied to the god: Tit -  lacauan (we are slaves); Telpochtli (the youth),  because   he   never   aged;   Moyocoyatzin   (the  determined doer), a name Sahagún says was  given to the god because he could do what he  pleased on earth or in heaven; Monenequi (he  who demands prayers); Teyocoyani (creator of  men); and Teimatini (disposer of men). Because  Tezcatlipoca   939

=== 페이지 957 ===
Tezcatlipoca was a jealous god who brought  plagues and famines, he was also called Yaotzin  (the arch enemy); Yaotl Necoc (the enemy of  both sides); Moquequeloa (the mocker); and  Yoalliehecatl (the night wind).  See also:   quetzalcoatl  Thais, St.   (fourth century)   In Christian leg -  end, penitent, saint, patron of fallen women  and courtesans. Feast, 8 October.  The Golden Legend,   written in the 13th cen -  tury, tells the story of the saint from various  earlier sources, such as the   Lives of the Fathers.  Thais was a courtesan who through her charms  “reduced to the direst poverty” the men who  paid for her affections. However, she met Abbot  Paphnutius, who not only convinced her of her  guilt but “shut her up in a little cell” and “sealed  the door with lead.” When Thais asked what  she was to do with her “natural issue of water,”  the abbot replied to her to leave it in the cell as  “thou deservest!” After three years Thais came  out, reformed, and died 15 days later.  The edifying life of the reformed whore  inspired the novel   Thaïs   by the cynic Anatole  France. In it Paphnutius, a young rake turned  monk, lives in the desert and dreams of the  courtesan Thaos. He interprets the dream as  a call to reform the woman, which he does.  The problem, however, is that Paphnutius  still has lustful dreams of the girl even though  she is now living the saintly life of a hermit.  In an attempt to rid himself of his lust he tries  all manner of mortifications until he realizes  that he really wants her. He tries to persuade  her to flee the convent with him. As she  dies (it was too much for her sensitive soul  to bear), the abbess sends Paphnutius away  when she sees the lust written on his face.  Jules Massenet wrote an operatic version of  France’s novel.  St. Thais is not to be confused with the  Athenian courtesan who convinced a drunken  Alexander the Great to set fire to the palace of  Persian kings at Persepolis.  See also:   golden legend, the  Thalia   (abundance, festive)   In Greek myth-  ology, a name of three different beings. One,  whose name meant festive, was the Muse of  comedy, daughter of Zeus and Mnemosyne  (memory), whose symbol was the mask used  by comedians. The second, whose name meant  abundance, was one of the Graces, daughter of  Zeus and Eurynome, sister of Aglaea (splen -  dor), and Euphrosyne (good cheer), mother of  the Palici by Zeus, chthonic twin deities who  were worshipped at the Palica, near Mount  Etna. (In early times humans were sacrificed to  them, and oaths were verified through divine  judgement.) The third Thalia was one of the  Nereids, a sea nymph. A famous movie house  in New York City devoted to old and classic  Thalia  940   Thais, St.

=== 페이지 958 ===
movies is named for Thalia. The first two of  these beings often overlap or are confused.  See also:   aglaea; euphrosyne; nereids; zeus  Thallo   (sprouting)   In Greek mythology, the  spring, one of the seasons; daughter of Zeus  and Themis; sister of Carpo and Auxo.  See also:   themis; zeus  Thamar   (date palm)   In Russian Georgian  legend, an evil queen who feasted with lovers  then threw them into a river the next day.  Queen Thamar’s castle was located near  the mighty Terek River. From her window at  night came the sound of her “enchanting voice,  whose song lured traveler, merchant, warrior or  peasant to see her within the castle.” When the  gates to the castle were opened and the wan -  derer entered, he would find himself in a luxu -  rious room, where Thamar, “richly bedecked  in brocade and jewels, reclined voluptuously on  a couch.” She would feast with the man, lock -  ing him in “passionate embraces,” but the next  morning “the waters of the Terek River would  bear away his corpse.” From her window could  be heard the whispered “farewell.”  Thamar’s legend was used by the Russian  poet Mikhail Lermontov in his short narrative  poem “Thamar,” which in turn was used as  the story basis for Mili Balakirev’s symphonic  poem   Thamar.   Balakirev’s score was later used  for the ballet   Thamar   by Michel Fokine, with  scenery and costumes by Léon Bakst.  Lermontov also used the character Thamar  in his long narrative poem   The Demon.   It tells  of a former angel who rebels against God. He  sees the beautiful Thamar and falls in love  with her, thinking it will reconcile him to God,  “In Paradise again I’d shine, like a new angel  in new splendor.” Thamar cannot resist the  demon and they kiss, but she dies and her soul  goes to heaven. The demon, however, is left  alone. Anton Rubinstein used the poem for   The  Demon,   his most popular opera during his life -  time. Boris Pasternak wrote a poem,   In Memory  of The Demon,   in praise of Lermontov’s poem.  Thamyris   (thick-set)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, a Thracian musician, son of Philammon  and Argiope, who challenged the Muses to  a contest of musical skill. Thamyris lost and  was blinded, his voice destroyed, and his lyre  broken as punishment. He was said to be the  lover of Hyacinthus. Homer’s   Iliad   (book 2)  and Milton’s   Paradise Lost   (Book 3:35) cite the  musician.  See also:   hyacinthus;   iliad, the ; muses  Thanatos   (death)   In   Greek   mythology,  death, son of Nyx and Erebus; twin brother  of Hypnos; brother of Aether, Cer, Dreams,  Hemera, Chron, Momus, Moros, and Nemesis;  and   called   Mors   by   the   Romans.   William  Cullen Bryant’s poem   Thanatopsis   deals with  the theme of death.  See also:   hypnos; nemesis  Than ka   (colored picture)   In Buddhism, any  icon that is colored. Its function is to open the  consciousness of the beholder to the spiritual  world. Woodcuts of similar design but without  color are used by poorer people.  Thecla,   St.   (god-famed)   (first century)   In  Christian legend, first female Christian mar -  tyr. Patron of Este and Milan, Italy. Feast,  23 September.  St. Thecla was one of the most honored  female saints in the early Church because of a  book called   The Acts of Paul and Thecla,   which  said she was a follower of St. Paul. According  to the legend, her reputation for holiness and  the cures she effected aroused the hatred of  local physicians in Iconium. They claimed she  was a priestess of Diana. “It is by her chastity  she does these cures,” they cried. “If we could  destroy that, her power would be overthrown.”  So they sent a delegation to rape Thecla. The  saint ran from them, praying all the time, and  then she “saw a rock opened to as large a degree  as that a man might enter .   .   . and she went into  the rock, which instantly so closed, that there  was not any crack visible where it had opened.”  Thecla, St.   941

=== 페이지 959 ===
All the mob found was her veil, lost where she  entered the rock.  Though she did not die a martyr’s death,  the   Eastern   Church   so   honors   her.   In   the  medieval Roman Church, St. Martin of Tours  advocated her cult.  See also:   martin of tours, st.; paul, st.;  stephen, st.  Themis   (justice,   right)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, a Titaness, later a goddess who presided  over hospitality, law, order, justice, and proph -  ecy. Themis was the wife of the Titan Iapetus  but later married Zeus after Metis was swal -  lowed. She was the mother of the Horae (sea -  sons), the three Moerae (Fates), and Astraea,  and some accounts say Themis was also the  mother of Prometheus. When Themis was  no longer Zeus’s wife she became his trusted  adviser, representing divine justice. She was  the protector of the oppressed and was called  Soteira (saving goddess) in her role as protec -  tor. Before Apollo’s oracle at Delphi, Themis  had a shrine in the same location. In Greek  art Themis is portrayed as a woman holding a  pair of scales and a cornucopia, symbol of the  blessing of order that the goddess gives her  people.  See   also:   apollo; delphi; horae; metis;  prometheus; titans; zeus  Thersites   (son of courage)   In Greek myth-  ology, ugly, hated Greek, son of Agrius. He  laughed at Achilles for the hero’s lamenting  the death of Penthesilea, the queen of the  Amazons. Achilles, in anger, killed Thersites.  He appears in Shakespeare’s   Troilus and Cressida  as a mean-spirited commentator on the play’s  characters.  See also:   achilles; amazons; penthesilea  Temple of Theseus, Athens  942   Themis

=== 페이지 960 ===
Theseus   (founder,   establisher)   In   Greek  mythology, hero, son of Aethra and Aegeus  or   Poseidon;   husband   of   Hippolyte,   father  of   Hippolytus;   husband   of   Ariadne,   father  of Oenopion and Staphylus; and husband of  Phaedra, father of Acamas and Demophon.  There are two accounts of the birth of  Theseus. In one, his father is King Aegeus and  he was raised by Pittheus, his grandfather. In a  variant account, Theseus’s father is the sea god  Poseidon. According to this variant account,  Theseus was challenged by King Minos of  Crete to prove that Poseidon was his father.  The king cast a ring into the sea, asking that  Theseus   recover   it.   Not   only   did   Theseus  recover the ring, but he also was given a golden  wreath by the sea goddess Amphitrite to prove  Poseidon was his father.  Six labors are usually assigned to Theseus,  all of them performed on his way from Troezen  to Athens. In each he kills some monster or  giant. The six monsters are: Periphetes, Sinis,  the Crommyonian sow, Sceiron, Cercym, and  Procrustes.   For   these   killings,   Theseus   was  purified near Athens, and then he entered the  city a hero. Theseus’s father, King Aegeus,  was now married to Medea, the former mis -  tress of Jason, and a witch. When Medea saw  the handsome Theseus she realized that her  control over Aegeus would be lessened, so she  prepared a poisoned cup for Theseus. Her plot  to kill him failed, and Medea fled in a winged  chariot. At this time the Athenians were paying  a yearly tribute of seven young boys and girls  to King Minos of Crete, who offered them as  sacrifices to the monster Minotaur, dwelling in  the labyrinth of Crete. King Minos demanded  the tribute as punishment for Aegeus, who  sent   Androgeus,   the   son   of   Minos,   against  the Marathonian bull, which had killed the  boy. Theseus told his father he would slay the  Minotaur and return with all the youths. He  set sail in a ship with black sails and promised,  when he returned, to change the sails to white  if he defeated the monster. Aphrodite, goddess  of love, was on Theseus’s side, and when he  arrived in Crete, she made Ariadne, daughter  of Minos, fall in love with Theseus. Ariadne  aided Theseus by means of a ball of magic  thread, which she gave him, telling him to fas -  ten one end of it to the lintel of the labyrinth as  he entered and unwind it until he came to the  Minotaur. In order to escape, he would simply  rewind the thread. Theseus killed the Mino -  taur, then offered it as a sacrifice to Poseidon.  He then fled with Ariadne, coming to the isle  of Naxos, where, while she was asleep, he aban -  doned her. Either she died of grief or was later  made the mistress of the god Dionysus.  Returning home to Athens, Theseus forgot  to change the black sails to white as he had  promised. When Aegeus saw the black sails he  believed that Theseus was dead and committed  suicide. Theseus was then made king of Athens.  He entered into battle with the Amazons, cap -  turing their queen, Antiope, or as some variant  accounts say, winning her love. But as in the  case of Ariadne, he grew tired of Antiope and  was ready to cast her off. Antiope tried to kill  Theseus but failed, and she in turn was killed by  Heracles. Theseus then married Phaedra, sister  of Ariadne. His new wife, however, fell in love  with her stepson Hippolytus and tried to seduce  him. When she failed, she killed herself, leaving  a note for Theseus saying that Hippolytus had  tried to rape her. Furious, Theseus prayed to  Poseidon to destroy his son. Theseus’s relations  with women were failures. Theseus planned  with his friend Pirithous, king of the Lapiths, to  abduct Persephone, queen of the underworld.  They failed, and Hades chained both men to  rocks. Heracles, who had come to the under -  world to capture Cerberus as one of his labors,  freed Theseus but failed to free Pirithous.  Returning   to   Athens,   he   found   another  ruler on the throne, and the people rejected  Theseus, who was now old. He went to King  Lycomedes on the island of Scyrus, where he  owned some land. Lycomedes pretended to  be pleased with Theseus’s visit but plotted his  death. He took Theseus to a cliff overlook -  ing his vast lands and pushed the hero to his  Theseus   943

=== 페이지 961 ===
death. In later belief, an image of the ghost of  Theseus appeared in full armor, rallying the  Athenians against the Persians, in the Battle of  Marathon (490   b.c.e. ).  Theseus appears in works by Apollodorus,  Herodotus, Homer, Hyginus, Ovid, Pausanias,  Statius, and Vergil and in English literature in  Chaucer, Shakespeare, Christina Rossetti, W.  H. Auden, and T. S. Eliot. Mary Renault’s nov -  els   The King Must Die   (1958) and   The Bull from  the Sea   (1962) also feature Theseus.  See also:   acamas; aegeus; aethra; amphi -  trite;   apollodorus;   ariadne;   demophon;  hippolyte; hippolytus; homer; minos; ovid;  pausanias; phaedra; poseidon  Thespis   (sixth century   b.c.e. )   In Greek his -  tory and legend, an Attic poet who is believed  to be the first actor to appear on stage separate  from the chorus. He introduced the prologue  and set speeches for himself, removing them  from the chorus, which previously had narrated  the entire drama. The use of masks in Greek  tragic drama as a device to develop character is  also credited to him.  Thespius   (divinely   sounding)   In   Greek  mythology, king of Boeotia who gave his 50,  51, or 52 daughters to sleep with Heracles.  Accounts vary. Some say Heracles slept with  each one, 51 in all, for 51 nights. Another  account says he had sexual intercourse with all  51 on the same night. In either case, only one  girl refused, and she was forced to remain a  virgin for life. Heracles fathered 51 sons, who  later colonized the island of Sardinia.  See also:   heracles  Thetis   (disposer)   In Greek mythology, sea  goddess, daughter of Nereus and Doris; sister of  the Nereids; wife of Peleus, mother of Achilles.  Both Zeus and Poseidon pursued Thetis, but  she avoided both. They gave up their quest  when they were told that the son Thetis would  bear would be greater than his father. To make  it safe for both, the two gods forced Thetis  to marry Peleus, king of the Myrmidons in  Thessaly.   She   tried   to   avoid   the   unwanted  union, transforming herself into various shapes,  but eventually she was forced to marry him.  Their son was Achilles. At their wedding, Eris,  the goddess of discord, threw a golden apple  inscribed “For the fairest” into the throng, and  all the goddesses tried to claim it. Zeus picked  Paris to choose the fairest, and his choice of  Aphrodite won him Helen, which eventually  led to the Trojan War. Thetis, wishing to make  her son Achilles invulnerable, dipped him in  the waters of the Styx. She held him by his  heel, thus leaving one vulnerable part that did  not touch the water. Later in the Trojan War  it was this heel that Paris shot, killing Achilles.  Thetis appears in Homer’s   Iliad   and   Odyssey,  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 11), and in Ingres’s  painting   Jupiter and Thetis,   which portrays the  goddess asking Jupiter (Zeus) to aid her son.  See also:   achilles; aphrodite; doris; helen  of troy; myrmidons;   iliad, the ; nereids;   odys -  sey, the ; ovid; paris; peleus; poseidon; styx;  titans; troy; zeus  Thinan-malkia   In   Australian   mythology,  evil spirits who capture victims with nets that  entangle their feet.  thistle   A prickly plant, emblem of Scotland.  During the reign of Malcolm I (935–958   c.e. ) a  party of invading Norsemen or Danes, attempt -  ing   to   surprise   Scottish   forces   at   Sterling  Castle, approached the camp under cover of  darkness. One of them accidentally stepped on  a thistle and cried out, thus rousing the Scots,  who defeated the invaders. With the thistle  the motto was adopted:   nemo me impune lacessit  (nobody touches me with impunity). However,  there is no record of the thistle as the Scottish  symbol until the reign of James VI, better  known as James I of England. On some coins  issued at his coronation, half of a thistle is com -  bined with half of a rose, apparently joining the  two sides of his family, the Scottish Thistle and  the Tudor Rose.  944   Thespis

=== 페이지 962 ===
Thomas,   St.   (twin)   (first   century)   In   the  Bible, N.T., one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus.  Patron saint of architects, builders, carpenters,  masons, geometricians, and theologians, and of  Portugal and Parma. Feast, 21 December.  Thomas is named in the Gospels of Mat -  thew, Mark, and Luke, but he is called Didymus  (twin) in John’s account (11:16). Thomas refused  to believe that Christ had risen until he touched  Jesus’ wounds with his fingers (John 20:24–29),  thus the expression “doubting Thomas.”  According to   The Golden Legend,   a 13th-  century account of the lives of saints, Thomas  was deputized to go as a missionary to India.  When he refused, Christ appeared and sold him  as a slave to an Indian prince who was visiting  Jerusalem. Thomas managed to found a church  in India, where he met the three Magi, whom  he baptized. According to another legend, while  in Caesarea, Thomas had a vision in which  Christ appeared and told him that Gondolforus,  king of the Indies, needed an architect to build  him a palace. Thomas went, and Gondolforus  gave him money to build the palace; then he  left for two years. When the king returned, he  found that Thomas had given all the money  to the poor and sick. The king, in anger, put  Thomas in prison, but a few days later the  king’s brother died and “there was made for  him a rich sepulchre, and the fourth day he that  had been dead arose from death to life, and all  men were abashed and fled. And he said to his  brother: ‘This man that thou intendest to slay  and burn is the friend of God, and the angels  of God serve him, and they brought me in to  paradise, and have showed me a palace of gold  St. Thomas Touching the Wounds of Christ   (Julius Schnoor von Carolsfeld)  Thomas, St.   945

=== 페이지 963 ===
and silver.   .   .   . And when I marveled of the great  beauty thereof, they said to me: “This is the pal -  ace that Thomas hath made for thy brother.”   ’   ”  After hearing about the dream, the king  freed Thomas. According to another legend,  the Portuguese found at Meliapore an inscrip -  tion saying Thomas had been pierced with a  lance at the foot of a cross that he had erected  in that city, and his body had been moved to  Goa in 1523.  The legend of La Madonna della Cintola  (Our Lady of the Girdle) says that when the  Virgin Mary ascended to heaven, St. Thomas  was not present with the other Apostles. Three  days later, when he returned, he could not  believe their account and wished to see her  tomb. The tomb was opened, and the Virgin  dropped her girdle from heaven for Thomas.  When St. Thomas is portrayed as an Apos -  tle, he holds a builder’s rule or square; when  he is shown as a martyr, he holds a lance. Two  scenes from his life are most often portrayed:  The Incredulity of Thomas, when he puts his  finger in the side of Christ, and La Madonna  della Cintola.  See also:   golden legend, the ; magi  Thomas à Becket, St.   (twin)   (1118–1170)  In Christian legend, archbishop of Canterbury  and martyr whose shrine at Canterbury was  a famous goal of pilgrims during the Middle  Ages.  Thomas was born in London of Norman  background. In 1154, after filling various posts,  he was ordained a deacon and nominated arch -  deacon of Canterbury. In the following year he  was made lord chancellor by his close friend  King Henry II. Though Thomas was known  for his hot temper and worldliness, his life  seemed to change. He opposed the king in his  demands on the liberties of the clergy. Thomas  described   himself   as   “a   proud   vain   man,   a  feeder of birds and follower of hounds,” who  was now “a shepherd of sheep.”  The   disputes   between   the   king   and   the  archbishop   continued   for   seven   years,   with  Thomas spending some time in exile in France.  He returned to England on 1 December 1170.  King Henry was reported to have said then,  “Of the cowards that eat my bread, is there  none that will rid me of this upstart priest.”  Four Norman knights then bound themselves  with an oath to kill Thomas. They went to  Canterbury, at first unarmed, but after meeting  with Thomas, who defied their demand, they  returned with swords. Thomas then ordered  the cross of Canterbury to be borne before  him as he passed through the cloister into the  church. His followers closed the gates behind  him, but he commanded them to be reopened,  saying, “God’s house should never be fortified  as a place of defense.”  As Thomas ascended the steps of the choir,  the four knights with twelve attendants, all  armed, burst into the church.  “Where is the traitor?” one asked. All were  silent.  “Where is the archbishop?” asked Reginald  Fitzurse.  “Here I am,” replied Thomas, “the arch -  bishop and no traitor, Reginald; I have granted  thee many favors. What is thy object now? If  thou seekest my life, let that suffice. I com -  mand thee, in the name of God, not to touch  my people.”  Thomas was then told he must absolve the  archbishop of York and the bishop of Salisbury,  whom he had excommunicated.  “Till   they   make   satisfaction,   I   will   not  absolve them,” he firmly replied.  “Then die,” said Tracy, one of the four  knights.  The first blow, aimed at his head, was bro -  ken in its force by Thomas’ cross-bearer so  that the archbishop was only slightly wounded.  Feeling the blood on his face, he bowed his  head, saying, “In the name of Christ and for the  defense of His Church I am ready to die.”  The murderers then attempted to remove  him from the church because they did not wish  to kill him in a sacred place. But Thomas could  not be moved.  946   Thomas à Becket, St.

=== 페이지 964 ===
“I will not stir,” he said. Again they struck  him.  He was so beaten by the four knights that  his brains were strewn on the pavement before  the altar. The monks of the cathedral then  bore Thomas’s body on a bier and placed it  in the choir of the cathedral. The people col -  lected the blood and remains that were left on  the pavement. It was not long before stories of  miracles in connection with his relics spread.  Eventually, a shrine to the saint was erected  in the cathedral, and it became one of the  most famous pilgrim sites in medieval Europe.  Chaucer’s Canterbury pilgrims followed routes  from London; others took the Pilgrim Way  across   the   North   Downs   from   Winchester.  Other pilgrims came from the Continent.  In 1538 King Henry VIII issued a proclama -  tion to the effect that “from henceforth the said  Thomas Becket shall not be esteemed, named,  reputed, nor called a Saint, but Bishop Becket,  and that his images and pictures through the  whole realm shall be put down and avoided out  of all churches, chapels and all other places: and  that henceforth the days used to be as festival in  his name shall not be observed, nor the service,  office, antiphons, collects and prayers in his  name read, but erased and put out of all books.”  As a result of Henry’s order no trace can  now be found of Thomas’s body, since it, along  with his famous shrine, were destroyed and the  gold and jewels given to the Royal Treasury of  Henry.  Thomas’s   legend,   however,   continued   to  fascinate the Middle Ages. After his murder  friends and enemies vied with one another  in praise of the saint. Within a few years of  his murder no fewer than nine Latin and one  French lives of the saint were in circulation.  Three of the Latin lives were the work of men  who said they were present at the events.  Aside   from   providing   a   framework   for  Chaucer’s   The Canterbury Tales,   the legend has  been used by Alfred, Lord Tennyson in his play  Becket,   and by T. S. Eliot in his verse drama  Murder in the Cathedral,   which was made into  an opera as   Assassinio nella Catterdrale   by Piz -  zetti. A French play by Jean Anouilh,   Becket,  was made into a film.  See also:   chaucer  Thomas Aquinas, St.   (twin)   (c. 1225–1274)  In Christian legend, Doctor Angelicus (angelic  doctor) of the Roman Church. Patron of book -  sellers,   Catholic   universities,   pencil   makers,  scholars, and students. Invoked for chastity  and learning and against storms and lightning.  Feast, 7 March.  Though called the Dumb Ox because of his  slowness, St. Thomas became one of the great -  est thinkers of the Roman Church during the  Middle Ages. He produced the   Summa Theolo -  giae,   the culmination of scholastic philosophy,  faith, and reason. He was also noted for some  hymns, particularly   Adoro Te,   which was trans -  lated into English by the baroque poet Richard  Crashaw in the 17th century.  Thomas was probably born at Roccasecca,  near Aquino in Campania, Italy. He was edu -  cated at Monte Cassino and then the University  of Naples. While he was an undergraduate, he  decided to become a Dominican. The order was  not quite 30 years old, and Thomas’s family, of  noble blood, thought it shocking that he should  waste himself becoming a mendicant friar. The  family kidnapped him and shut him up in the  family castle, but the Dominicans of Naples  went in disguise to the castle and, with the help  of Thomas’s sister, let him down from the castle  by lowering a basket. This episode is similar to  St. Paul’s escape in Acts (9:25). St. Thomas spent  the remainder of his life reading and writing. He  died in the Cistercian abbey at Fossa Nova.  Numerous   legends   circulated   during   the  Middle Ages about the saint. One relates that  as he knelt before a crucifix it spoke to him, ask -  ing him what he most desired. Thomas replied,  “Thyself   only,   O   Lord.”   Another   medieval  legend tells that at his birth there were three  bright stars in the heavens—one for him, one  for St. Ambrose of Siena, and one for St. James  of Menavia—all born on the same day.  Thomas Aquinas, St.   947

=== 페이지 965 ===
Toward the end of his life St. Thomas was  more   and   more   disengaged   from   everyday  matters. His eyes were often fixed on other  horizons. His ecstasies were said to be quite  frequent and to last for a long time. After each  one he is reported to have said, “Oh, who will  deliver me from this body of death?”  Though St. Thomas is recognized by the  Roman Church as one of its greatest theolo -  gians, there was a time when his writings were  condemned by various church councils. The  Franciscans, a rival order to the Dominicans,  for some time forbade their members to read  any of the saint’s works.  St. Thomas is portrayed in medieval art  wearing the Dominican habit, with a book or  pen, or a Host (he defended the Roman Catho -  lic doctrine of transubstantiation), and with a  sun or human eye on his breast. Often a star is  seen overhead, referring to one of his legends.  See also:   ambrose, st.; paul, st.  Thomas More, St.   (twin)   (1478–1535)   In  Christian legend, martyr and lord chancellor of  England under Henry VIII. Feast, 6 July.  Born in Milk Street, Cheapside, London,  More studied at Oxford and was called to the  bar in 1501. He was married twice. His first  wife was Jane Colt and his second, Alice Mid -  dleton. In 1516 he published his most famous  work,   Utopia,   which dealt with an ideal state  of living according to natural law and religion.  The book contained many satiric attacks on  both secular and religious authority. In 1529,  after a quick advancement at court, More was  made lord chancellor to replace the disgraced  Cardinal Wolsey. During his years in office  he dealt with the Lutheran controversy, even  writing tracts for the king, who gained the  title of Defender of the Faith from the pope  for his defense of the seven sacraments against  Luther’s pamphlet. Yet More also dealt rather  harshly with “heretics” and was responsible for  enforcing some of the harshest penalties for  homosexuality in England. When the problem  of the king’s divorce came to a head, More  resigned his office and retired. He was called  back to take the oath imposed by the Act of  Successions and refused. He was imprisoned  in the Tower of London and wrote devotional  works, such as the   Dialogue of Comfort against  Tribulation.   On 1 July 1535 he was accused  of treason for his opposition to the Act of  Supremacy and was beheaded on Tower Hill  five days later.  His son-in-law William Roper wrote a life  of Thomas More and described More’s last day  when he was led “towards the place of execu -  tion, where, going up the scaffold, which was  so weak that it was ready to fall, he said to  Mr. Lieutenant, ‘I pray you, I pray you, Mr.  Lieutenant, see me safe up, and for my coming  down let me shift for myself.’   ” He then turned  to the executioner “and with a cheerful counte -  nance spoke to him. ‘Pluck up thy spirits, man,  and be not afraid to do thine office. My neck is  very short. Take heed therefore thou strike not  awry for saving of thine honor.’   ”  The famous painting of Thomas More by  Hans   Holbein,   the   court   painter   to   Henry  VIII, is in the Frick Collection in New York  City. The artist also made sketches of the saint  and his family. There is a picture of the saint St. Thomas More  948   Thomas More, St.

=== 페이지 966 ===
by Antoine Caron in the museum at Blois, in  which he is shown as an old man with a long  beard, surrounded by what seem to be Roman  soldiers, being embraced by his daughter on  his way to execution. More forms the subject  of a play by Robert Bolt,   A Man for All Seasons,  which has on its opening page a quotation from  Samuel Johnson that More “was the person  of the greatest virtue these islands ever pro -  duced.” A 1967 movie was also entitled   A Man  for All Seasons.  Thor   (Thur, Thunar, Thunaer) (thunderer)  In Norse mythology, the sky god; son of Odin  and Fjorgyn (earth); husband of Sif; associated  with thunder and lightning. One of Thor’s  main epithets is Vingnir (the hurler); he appears  in Richard Wagner’s   Der Ring des Nibelungen   as  Donner. The   Prose Edda   describes Thor as “the  strongest of the gods and men.” His realm is  called Thrudvang; his mansion of 540 rooms,  Bilskirnir (lightning). His chariot is drawn by  two goats, Tanngniost and Tanngrisnir. Among  his possessions are a magic hammer, Mjolnir  (thunderbolt),   forged   by   the   dwarf   Sindri.  When Thor threw Mjolnir, the hammer would  return to him of its own power. The evil fire-  trickster god, Loki, disguised as a fly, tried to  interfere with the forging by flying around  Sindri. As a result, the hammer had a short  handle. A blow from Mjolnir brought instant  death,   but   it   could   also   restore   life.   Thor  used Mjolnir to bless weddings on Thursday  (Thor’s day). The giant Thrym (noise) once  stole Thor’s hammer and demanded the god -  dess Freyja as payment for its return. Thor,  disguised as Freyja, had Thrym lay the hammer  in his lap and then slew Thrym and all of his  giant companions with it. Thor also possessed  a magic belt, Megingjardir, which doubled his  strength when he wore it.  His worship continued into the Christian  Middle Ages. Thor’s temples and images, like  Odin’s, were made of wood, and the majority  were destroyed in the 11th century by King  Olaf II, who was later sainted by the church.  According to some accounts, the saintly king  often forced his subjects to reject Thor’s wor -  ship in favor of Christ’s. Olaf was especially  angry at the inhabitants of one province who  worshipped a primitive image of Thor which  they decked with golden ornaments. Every  evening they set food before the image, and  the next morning it was gone—they believed  Thor had eaten it. When the people were  called by Olaf in 1030   c.e.   to renounce Thor’s  worship in favor of the one, true god, Christ,  they asked for a miracle. They would believe  if it were cloudy the next day; it was cloudy,  Then they asked that if they were to believe  in the Christian god, the following day should  be filled with sunshine. Olaf spent the night  in prayer, but at dawn the sky was overcast.  Nevertheless, determined to win the people  for Christ, he assembled them near Thor’s  image. Suddenly, while they all were listening  to him, Olaf pointed to the horizon, where the  sun was slowly breaking through the clouds.  “Behold our God!” he cried. While the people  looked at the sun coming through the clouds,  Olaf’s guards destroyed Thor’s image. Mice  Thor   (W. G. Collingwood)  Thor   949

=== 페이지 967 ===
Thor  950   Thor

=== 페이지 968 ===
and other vermin came out of the wrecked  image. Seeing that the food had been eaten  by animals, and not by their god, the people  accepted the worship of Christ. Thor appears  in the   Poetic Edda,   the   Prose Edda,   and Henry  W. Longfellow’s   The Saga of King Olaf   (part of  his   Tales of a Wayside Inn ) in which the “Chal -  lenge of Thor” opens:  I am the God Thor,  I am the War God,  I am the Thunderer!  Here in my Northland,  My fastness and fortress,  Reign I forever!  Thor appears as Donner in Arthur Rack -  ham’s illustrations for Wagner’s Ring Cycle.  See also:   freya; geirrod; hymir; midgard  serpent; odin;   poetic edda ;   prose edda ;   ring  des nibelungen, der ; sindri  Thoth   (Tahuti,   Techa,   Thout,   Dhouti,  Zhouti)   In Egyptian mythology, ibis-headed  moon god, also patron of wisdom, arts, speech;  inventory of hieroglyphics and science; he was  believed to be the author of The Book of the  Dead .   Thoth was regarded as both the heart  and tongue of the great sun god Ra. When  Thoth spoke, the wishes of Ra were fulfilled,  as when the heavens and the earth were created  and when Isis was given the words by which  to revive the dead body of her son Horus.  In the judgment scene in The Book of the  Dead ,   Thoth, after weighing the words of the  deceased, gives to the gods the final verdict as  to whether a soul is to be blessed or punished.  Thoth was also called Tehuti (the measurer).  In this capacity he had the power to grant life  for millions of years to the deceased. When  the great battle took place between Horus and  Set, Thoth acted as the judge, being called  Wep-rehewy (judge of the two opponent gods).  During the struggle he gave Isis a cow’s head in  place of her own, which had been severed by  Horus in anger when Isis befriended Set.  The Greeks identified Thoth with their  god Hermes. They described him as the inven -  tor of astronomy and astrology, the science  of numbers and mathematics, geometry, land  surveying, medicine, and botany. They said he  was the first to organize religion and govern -  ment, establishing the rules concerning wor -  ship of the gods. He was said to have composed  hymns, prayers, and liturgical works and to  have invented numbers, hieroglyphics, read -  ing, writing, and oratory. In short, he was the  author of every branch of knowledge, both  human and divine.  In Egyptian art Thoth usually appears in  human form with the head of an ibis, although  sometimes he appears as the ibis alone. The bird  was sacred to him and was associated with the  moon, as was Thoth as the measurer of time.  Sometimes he is portrayed as a seated baboon  wearing the crescent moon on his head. This  image reflects the belief that Thoth, as the  moon god, took the place of Ra, the sun god,  while Ra made his nightly journey through the  underworld. When Thoth is portrayed in human  Thoth  Thoth   951

=== 페이지 969 ===
form, he holds a scepter and ankh, sign of life,  properties common to all of the gods. His head -  dress, however, varies according to the particular  aspect of the god the artist wished to depict. As  the reckoner of time and the seasons, Thoth  wears on his head the crescent moon. Sometimes  he wears the Atef crown and sometimes the  united crowns of Upper and Lower Egypt. In  The Book of the Dead he appears as the “scribe  of Maat,” or justice, holding the writing reed and  palette. His close connection with the god Ra is  sometimes indicated by his carrying the   utchat,  which symbolized the strength of the eye of Ra.  See also:   ankh; book of the dead, the;  hermes; horus; isis; maat; ra; set; utchat  Thousand and One Nights, The   (The Arabian  Nights)   English translation of the Arabic col -  lection of tales,   Alf Laylah wa-laylah,   which is  based on a Persian collection, compiled between  988 and 1011   c.e.   The tales are arranged within  a narrative framework. The Persian monarch  Shahriyar had little trust in women’s fidelity,  so he adopted the habit of taking a new wife  each night and killing her the next morning.  However, the clever Shahrazad, or Sheherazade,  kept the monarch amused each night by telling  a tale that always carried over to the next night  so that, as it says at the end of the massive col -  lection, “the Sultan of the Indies could not fail  to admire the prodigious store of interesting  stories with which the sultana had whiled away  the time through one thousand and one nights.”  He decided not to kill her. The two lived hap -  pily together, and “their names were loved and  respected throughout the wide territory of the  Empire of the Indies.”  The collection contains 264 tales of varying  length, from short anecdotes of a few lines to  novellas of several hundred pages. The tales  generally fall into the following categories:  1.   Histories or long romances, containing  references to actual events. There are  few of this type, but they make up the  longest tales of the collection.  2.   Anecdotes and short stories dealing with  historical personages or with incidents of  everyday life. These are the most numer -  ous   tales   in   the   collection,   and   they  relate for the most part to the period  of the Abbaside caliphs El Mensour, El  Mutawekkil, El Mutezid, El Mustensir,  and Harun al-Rashid. Other tales in this  category tell of ancient Persian kings.  3.   Romantic tales. There are four types  that fit into this category: long romantic  and supernatural tales, referring to no  particular historical epoch; long purely  fictitious   tales,   laid   in   some   definite  historical era and introducing historical  personages; novellas of rogues, sharp -  ers, and impostors at the time of the  caliphs;   and   fantastic   tales,   the   most  numerous of this section, which include  Title page from   The Thousand and  One Nights   (Thomas Henry)  952   Thousand and One Nights, The

=== 페이지 970 ===
saints’ tales, stories of unfortunate lov -  ers, short purely fictional tales, and tales  in a Boccaccio-like mode.  4.   Fables and apologues, or short moral  tales. The numerous animal fables are  derived   mainly   from   Greek,   Persian,  and Indian sources, though some are  even from Chinese and Japanese works.  5.   Tales that display wit and learning on  the barest thread of narrative. In many  of the tales there are poetical composi -  tions, some of high artistic merit and  some on the level of doggerel.  The first translation of the tales into a Euro -  pean tongue was done by a French Oriental -  ist, Antoine Galland (1646–1715), who adapted  many of the tales to the taste of his age with  elaborate fictional detail. This version’s influence  on European literature was immense. Direct  imitation of the collection is found in such works  as Beckford’s   Vathek   and Marryat’s   The Pasha of  Many Tales ; the form of the work inspired Robert  Louis Stevenson’s   New Arabian Nights   and   More  Arabian Nights.   Among other writers, Goethe, in  his   Westostlicher Diwan;   Platen in   Die Abbassiden;  and Victor Hugo, in   Orientales,   demonstrate the  influence of the Arabic work.  In general the English reaction to the work  was one of approval. Tennyson’s   Recollections of  the Arabian Nights   was, according to the poet,  based on two tales in Galland’s translation.  Thomas Carlyle, however, would not allow  the book in his house because it was filled with  “downright lies.” His puritanical attitude is  similar to the general one of orthodox Mus -  lims, as reflected by one 10th-century histo -  rian, Ali Aboulhusn el Mesoudi, who said the  collection was “indeed vulgar.”  The Thousand and One Nights   has influenced  other European arts in addition to literature.  In music Rimsky-Korsakov’s symphonic suite  Scheherezade   attempts, in its four movements,  to evoke the mood of the tales. The suite was  used by Michel Fokine for a ballet of the same  title with fantastical costumes by Léon Bakst.  In 1898 Maurice Ravel began an opera to be  titled   Shéhérazade   but completed only an over -  ture. He did compose a set of songs to words  by Tristan Klingsor, called   Shéhérazade.   One of  the most popular operas of the last century,   The  Barber of Bagdad   by Peter Cornelius, was based  on the collection, and Ernest Reyer’s   La Statue,  Issai Obrowen’s   A Thousand and One Nights,  and Henri Raboud’s   Mârouf   also are based on  this source. Other works in the 20th century  include British composer Benno Bardi’s   Fatme  and Victor de Sabata’s   Mille e una notte.  Filmmakers have been fascinated by the  Oriental background of the collection and have  produced numerous film epics drawn from the  tales. Typical is   Arabian Nights,   starring Maria  Montez, Jon Hall, and Sabu.  three-fold repetition   Many forms of folk  narrative feature repetition, and in Western  culture the number three is dominant, dat -  ing from Greek and Roman times. In many  tales there are three brothers (Tom, Dick, and  Harry), three wishes are granted, three tasks  are assigned, three magic objects are found, or  three days of interval transpire. In jokes there  are   commonly   three   figures   (Englishman/  Irishman/Scotsman;   Minister/Priest/Rabbi;  blond/brunette/redhead), and there are often  three parts to the joke before the punch line  is given. In songs, the repetition continues:  “Mary had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb;”  “Row, row, row your boat”; “One little, two lit -  tle, three little Indians”; and “London Bridge is  falling down, falling down, falling down.” Even  in everyday folk speech, we encounter this tri -  chotomy: beg, borrow, and steal; blood, sweat,  and tears; fat, dumb, and happy; bell, book, and  candle; cool, calm, and collected; it’s a bird,  it’s a plane, it’s Superman; up, up, and away.  This three-fold repetition is a common part of  cultural patterning in Western culture. Other  numbers are used in other cultures, particularly  seven and 12, both of which suggest some level  of completeness. In Native American narratives  the numbers four and five are dominant.  three-fold repetition   953

=== 페이지 971 ===
Thulur   In Norse mythology, systematic lists  of synonyms found in the   Eddas.   These terms  were important because skaldic poetry depend -  ed on kennings and heiti for the telling of a  story. The kennings, figurative expressions of  various kinds, and the heiti, rare poetic names,  are of particular importance because they refer  to other myths and heroic legends and can only  be understood if the listener to these tales also  knows the story that is being referred to.  See also:   kenning;   poetic edda ;   prose edda  Thunderbird   In   North   American   Indian  mythology (North Pacific Coast, in the Plateau,  and the Pomo of California), a giant bird, sym -  bol of thunder, who not only causes thunder  but brings war and blessings. Lightning is the  flashing of his eyes; thunder, the sound of his  wings flapping. Like the Aryan thunder-gods  (Thor, Zeus, Indra), he is the embodiment of  the life force that strikes down man-eating  monsters and serpents.  See also:   indra; thor; zeus  Thurber, James   (1894–1961)   In American  literature,   an   essayist,   cartoonist,   playwright,  and author of collections of fables. His fable  characters were both human and animal, bloated  husbands   and   shrewish   wives,   but   also   wise  and knowing dogs, a mouse, a lion, a wolf, a  scorched moth, and perhaps the best known of  all, a unicorn. Thurbers’s fables appeared in his  Fables for Our Times and Famous Poems Illustrated  (1940) and in   Further Fables for Our Time   (1956).  In his story of the “Unicorn in the Garden,”  Thurber presents a husband who sees a beauti -  ful unicorn wandering around his garden one  fine morning. He goes inside several times to  tell his wife of his sighting. To each report she  shrewishly responds, “The unicorn is a mythical  beast, and I am going to have you thrown in the  booby-hatch.” When the police arrive ready to  bind him in restraints and take him off to the  mental hospital, they ask him about the sighting  of a unicorn in his garden, to which he replies,  “The unicorn is a mythical beast.” The police  then bind his wife and cart her away. The moral:  “Don’t count your boobies before they hatch.”  Some of his aphorisms, in which animals often  appear, still make interesting points: “The dog  has seldom been successful in pulling man up  to its level of sagacity, but man has frequently  dragged the dog down to his.”  Ti-Albert   In Haitian voodoo, a loa (dei -  fied spirit of the dead) symbolized by a dwarf  with one leg. He aids priests and priestesses  in driving people insane for wrongdoing. He  is offered fruit, eggs, and olive or peanut oil.  When he possesses a person, he makes that  person a better sex partner.  See also:   loa  Tiberinus   In Roman mythology, a king of  Italy; son of Janus and Camasena; he drowned  in the Albula river, which was renamed Tiber.  Some accounts say Tiberinus and the river god  Volturnus were combined to form one god,  Tiber. In a variant tale Tiberinus, not Helenus  as in Vergil, appears to Aeneas, telling him  where to found the new city, Rome. His festival  was 8 December.  See also:   aeneas; helenus; janus; volturnus  T’ien Hou   (heavenly empress)   In Chinese  mythology,   a   deified   mortal   worshipped   as  goddess of the sea. In life she was able to calm  a storm by closing her eyes. She also is called  Ch’uan Hou (river empress) and portrayed as a  princess in elaborate court costume.  tiger   A large animal of the cat family hav -  ing a tawny coat with narrow black stripes; in  Chinese mythology, king of the beasts, taking  the place of the lion of Western folklore. In  Chinese   Buddhist   mythology   it   symbolizes  anger, one of the Three Senseless Creatures,  the others being the monkey as greed and the  deer as lovesickness. In Hindu mythology the  tiger is the mount of the goddess Durga, as  destroyer, and of Shiva, who sometimes wears  a tiger skin. In the west, T. S. Eliot’s poem  954   Thulur

=== 페이지 972 ===
“Gerontion” depicts Christ as a tiger, recalling  the terror, strength, and awe the beast conjures  up in humankind, as does William Blake’s “The  Tyger.” There are numerous motifs associated  with tigers in the   Motif Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   lion; shiva  Tigranes   In   Armenian   folklore,   a   dragon  slayer and king. Azadhak, king of Media, had a  dream in which a fair-eyed woman gave birth  to a dragon slayer who attacked the king and  destroyed   his   idols.   When   Azadhak   awoke,  he asked his wise men what the dream signi -  fied. They told him that the famous dragon  slayer Tigranes was on his way to the kingdom.  Wishing to save himself, the king offered to  marry Tigranes’ sister Tigranuhi, but he told  her he planned to kill her brother. The faithful  sister so informed her brother. Tigranes came  to the king and plunged his triangular spear -  head into Azadhak’s chest. Azadhak’s family was  forced to move to Armenia and settle around  Massis. They became the children of the drag -  on, since the first queen of Azadhak was Anush,  the mother of dragons. Azadhak is a variation of  the Persian demon Azhi Dahaka, who in Persian  mythology appears as King Zahhak in the epic  poem of Firdusi,   The Shah Namah.  See also:   azhi dahaka; zahhak  Ti-Jean-Pied-Sec   In   Haitian   voodoo,   an  evil loa (deified spirit of the dead) who makes  people commit rape. He is one-legged and eats  raw meat.  See also:   loa  Tiki   (image)   In Polynesian mythology, the  first man created by the god Tane from red  clay. In a variant myth, Tiki is the name of a  creator god who forms a man, Tiki-ahua, who  resembles the god’s form.  See also:   tane  Tilaka   (mole)   In Hinduism, the mark on the  forehead and/or arms and/or chest made with  red, yellow, or white pigment during the morn -  ing devotions at the home altar. Sometimes the  term   tika   (spot) is used.  Till Eulenspiegel   (owl glass)   In medieval  German legend, a trickster. He was a native  of Brunswick, Dietrich (Till) Ulenspegel, who  died in 1350 of the plague after a life in which  Till Eulenspiegel  Till Eulenspiegel   955  Tiger   (Konrad Gesner)

=== 페이지 973 ===
Ruins at Tintagel  956   Tilottama  he was noted for often brutal tricks and practi -  cal jokes, played mostly on tradespeople and  innkeepers. His adventures were put into book  form by Thomas Murner, a Franciscan monk  of Strasbourg. The goal seems to have been  to contrast city dwellers with unappreciated  peasant farmers. Similar figures are found in  other countries, such as the Turkish Hodscha  Nasreddin.   In   English   he   was   called   Tyll  Owlyglass or Tyll Owleglass. Richard Strauss’s  tone poem   Till Eulenspiegel’s Merry Pranks   is a  rondo for orchestra. In modern Germany there  is an Eulenspiegel Museum in Schöppenstadt.  See also:   trickster  Tilottama   In Hindu mythology, a Brahman  female who bathed at an improper season and  was condemned to be born as Apsaras, a water  nymph. She was loved by the god Shiva. He  became so enamored of Tilottama’s looks that  he took on four faces so that he could gaze at  her beauty at all times.  See also:   shiva  Timon of Athens   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In  Greek legend, a misanthrope who came to the  conclusion that life was a fraud. Timon appears  in Plutarch’s   Life of Anthony,   which inspired  Shakespeare’s play   Timon of Athens.  Tinirau   In Polynesian mythology, sea god  who had two forms, one divine and the other  human. As a human being he was handsome  and pleasant, having a liaison with the goddess  Hina. In animal form he appeared as a man-  of-war bird, hovering above the waters and  striking without warning, destroying both men  and their boats. Tinirau is also referred to as  Sinilau, Kinilau, Timirau, and Tinilau.  See also:   kae; oro; tane  Tintagel   (stronghold   of   the   resplendent  mighty god)  In Arthurian legend, a castle on the coast of  Cornwall where various episodes from Arthu -  rian legends took place. It was here that Arthur  was born and Uther Pendragon died. Its ruins

=== 페이지 974 ===
still exist. Arnold Bax’s symphonic poem   Tinta -  gel   captures the feeling of the area.  See also:   arthur; igraine  Tipitaka   (three   baskets)   Three   collections  of sacred books in Buddhism, the   Vinaya Pitaka,  the   Sutta Pitaka,   and the   Abhidhamma Pitaka,  converted from the oral to the written tradi -  tion sometime in the first century   c.e.   The  first book, the   Vinaya,   contains rules for the  monks and nuns; the second,   Sutta,   is a series  of sermons on general topics; and the last,  Abhidhamma,   is   a   collection   of   material   on  advanced topics concerning the nature of con -  sciousness. In Sanskrit, Tripitaka.  Tirawahat   In   North   American   Indian  mythology (Pawnee), the “heaven’s circle” of  Tirawa, the supreme god, creator of the heav -  enly bodies. Thunder, lightning, winds, and  rain are his messengers.  Tiresias   (Teiresias) (he who delights in signs)  In Greek mythology, blind prophet; son of Everes  and Chariclo; father of Chloris and Manto.  There are variant accounts of why Tiresias  became blind. In one version, he saw two  snakes mating, killed the female, and imme -  diately was transformed into a woman. After  seven years he again saw two snakes mating,  but this time he killed the male and was trans -  formed back into a man. When an argument  arose between Zeus and Hera as to who had  more pleasure during sexual intercourse, man  or   woman,   they   consulted   Tiresias   as   the  one best able to speak from experience. He  answered that women received more pleasure  during the sex act. This so angered Hera that  she blinded Tiresias as a punishment for tell -  ing the truth. Zeus, who could not withdraw  the blindness, gifted Tiresias with prophetic  powers   and   a   very   long   life.   In   a   variant  account Tiresias was punished for having seen  Athena bathe in the fountain of Hippocrene.  In another account he was blinded because  when   he   was   seven   years   old   he   revealed  secrets. Tiresias died when he drank from the  icy waters of the fountain of Telphusa.  He appears or is cited in Homer, Aeschylus,  Apollodorus,   Diodorus,   Hyginus,   Pausanias,  Pindar, and Sophocles in ancient literature. In  English literature both Tennyson and Swin -  burne have poems called “Tiresias.” He also  appears in T. S. Eliot’s   The Waste Land.  See   also:   apollodorus;   athena;   hera;  homer; zeus  Tirthamkara   (one   who   makes   a   ford)   In  Jainism, title applied to 23 teachers who have  been liberated from continual rebirths, having  attained Nirvana. Because they have complete  liberation from the world, they are transcen -  dent,   omniscient,   actionless,   and   absolutely  at peace. This concept, however, is mitigated  in Jain practice, in which they are objects of  worship.  The 23 Tirthamkara are the following:  Rishabha, who according to one account,  “reached the infinite” after “fasting three and a  half days without drinking water” and engaged  in meditation. He died in the company of “ten  thousand monks .   .   . freed from all pains.” His  symbol is the bull, and his color is golden.  Ajita (the unconquered). His symbol is the  elephant and his color is golden.   Variant spell -  ing : Ajitanatha.  Sambhava (who opens up possibilities). His  symbol is the horse, and his color is golden.  Variant spelling : Sambhavanatha.  Abhinandana   (feeling   of   voluptuousness).  His symbol is the ape, and his color is golden.  Sumati   (good   sense).   His   symbol   is   the  heron, and his color is golden.  Padmaprabha (lord of the lotus). His sym -  bol is the lotus, and his color red.  Suparshva   (crowned   by   a   five-hooded  Naga). His symbol is the swastika, and his  color is golden.  Chandrapradha   (lord   of   the   moon).   His  symbol is the moon, and his color is white.  Pushpadanta. His symbol is the dolphin,  and his color is white.   Variant spelling : Subidhi.  Tirthamkara   957

=== 페이지 975 ===
Sitala (free from emotion). His symbol is  the swastika, and his color is golden.  Shreyamsa (who was born at Sarnath). His  symbol   is   the   rhinoceros,   and   his   color   is  golden.  Vasupujya (universal adoration). His symbol  is the buffalo, and his color is red.  Vimalanatha   (purity).   His   symbol   is   the  hog, and his color is golden.  Anantanatha (eternity). His symbol is the  falcon, and his color golden.  Dharmanatha (just law; just truth). His sym -  bol is the thunderbolt, and his color is golden.  Shantinatha (lord of peace). His symbol is  the antelope, and his color is golden.  Kunthunatha. His symbol is the goat, and  his color is golden.  Aranatha (who triumphs over the enemy).  His color is golden.  Mallinatha. The only woman on the list.  Her symbol is a jar, and her color is blue.  Munisuvrata (observation of monastic laws).  His symbol is the tortoise, and his color is  black.  Nami. His symbol is the blue lotus, and his  color is golden.  Arishtanemi. His symbol is the conch shell,  and his color is black.  Parshva. His symbol is two Nagas, and his  color is blue.  Tishtrya   (Tistar, Tistrya)   In Persian myth-  ology, rain god, primeval producer of rain,  seas, and lakes, often called the bright and  glorious   star   and   identified   with   Sirius,   to  whom sacrifices were made to bring purifica -  tion to the soul. As rain god, Tishtrya was in  continual battle against the demons of drought,  particularly Apaosha. One day, Tishtrya, in the  form of a beautiful white horse, went down to  the ocean’s depths and met Apaosha, who was  in the form of a black horse. The two battled  for three days and three nights. Apaosha was  gaining the upper hand when Tishtrya called  upon the good god, Ahura Mazda, for aid.  Ahura Mazda then made sacrifices to Tishtrya  to renew his strength. With this newly gained  energy Tishtrya defeated the demon Apaosha.  See also:   ahura mazda  Titans   (lords,   rulers)   In   Greek   mythology,  primeval gigantic beings; children of Uranus  and   Gaea.   Their   number   varies,   though   12  are generally named, coinciding with the 12  Olympian gods who replaced the Titans as rul -  ers. They are Oceanus, Tethys, Hyperion, Thia,  Crius, Mnemosyne (Eurybia), Coeus, Phoebe,  Cronus, Rhea, Iapetus, and Themis. Added to  the list sometimes are Briareus, Cottus, Gyges,  Enceladus,   Porphyrion,   and   Rhoetus,   though  some accounts say they were just giants, not Titans.  Also called Titans are Prometheus, Epimetheus,  and Atlas. Cronus, their leader, overthrew his  father, Uranus, and castrated him. Cronus, in  turn, was overthrown by his son Zeus. In the  ensuing war Iapetus and all the 12 Titans, except  Oceanus, sided with their brother Cronus against  Zeus. The war continued for 10 years until Zeus,  advised by Gaea, released from Tartarus, the  lowest section of the underworld, the Cyclopes  and the Hecatonchires, who sided with Zeus and  helped him defeat the Titans, who were then  cast into Tartarus. Prometheus also sided with  Zeus in the battle and was rewarded. The Titans  appear in Hesiod’s   Theogony,   Hyginus’s   Fables,  and   Apollodorus’s   Biblioteca   (Library).   Keats’s  unfinished epic,   The Fall of Hyperion,   deals with  the sun god of the Titans. Mahler’s Symphony  No. 1 in D is subtitled “Titan.”  See also:   atlas; gaea; hesiod; hyperion;  oceanus; olympian gods; prometheus; the -  mis; titans; uranus; zeus  Titha Jumma   In Burmese mythology, a disci -  ple of the Buddha. Titha Jumma and his brother  Zaya Kumma were hatched from eggs left by a  dragon woman. They were brought up by two  hermit brothers. Titha Jumma died when he was  10 but was reborn when the Buddha appeared  in his country, and he became a disciple of the  Buddha.  See also:   buddha, the  958   Tishtrya

=== 페이지 976 ===
Tithonus   In Greek mythology, handsome  young man; son of Laomedon, king of Troy,  and Leucippe. Aurora, the dawn, fell in love  with the handsome youth and granted him  immortality at his request. Tithonus, however,  forgot to ask for perpetual youth. As he grew  older and older he begged the goddess to kill  him. Aurora eventually changed him into a  grasshopper. Tennyson’s   Tithonus,   a dramatic  monologue, deals with his tragic fate.  See also:   laomedon; troy  Ti Tsang   (Kshitigarbha)   In Chinese Bud-  dhism, a Bodhisattva, god of the underworld  and   instructor   of   the   regions   of   darkness,  who travels unceasingly throughout the nether  world to succor the dead. Ti Tsang is the  Chinese form of the Sanskrit Kshitigarbha. As  a young man Ti Tsang was a young Brahman  who, being converted to the Buddha of that  time, took a vow to become a Buddha, but  not before he had saved all beings sunk in  ignorance and brought them over the river  of Samsara to the Happy Land. During his  numerous reincarnations he sacrificed himself  to fulfill this vow. He is especially concerned  with dead children. Mothers who have lost a  child pray to him and place a child’s bib around  the neck of his image. He is portrayed as a  monk. In Japanese he is called Jizo.  See also:   bodhisattva; brahman  Titurel   In medieval legends associated with  the Holy Grail, a knight who was the first  guardian of the Grail. He was succeeded by his  son Frimutel and later by Amfortas.  See also:   amfortas; holy grail  Tiur   (Tir)   In Armenian mythology, scribe of  the supreme god, Aramazd; Tiur kept a record  of the good and evil deeds of men for future  judgment. He also wrote down the decrees that  were issued from Aramazd concerning human  events. Some scholars believe Tiur was also the  of god who conducted the souls to the under -  world.   The   common   Armenian   expression  “May Tiur carry him off!” refers to the god in  his possible role as conductor of the dead.  See also:   aramazd  Ti Yü   (the earth prison)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, the underworld or hell, made up of 10  sections governed by the Shih-Tien Yen Wang  (the Yama kings of the 10 hills). Each king  rules over one of the hells. They are Ch’in-  kuang wang, Ch’u-kuang wang, Sung-ti wang,  Wu-kuan wang, Yen-mo wang, Pien ch’eng,  T’ai-shan kun wang, P’ing-Teng, Tu-shi, and  Chuan-lun wang.  See also:   ch’in-kuang wang; pien ch’eng;  p’ing-teng wu-kuan wang; sung-ti wang;  t’ai-shan kun wang; yen-mo wang  Tjinimin   the   Bat   In   Australian   mythol -  ogy, the trickster bat, son of Kunmanggur, the  Rainbow Snake. He raped his sisters and even -  tually killed his father with a spear.  See also:   rainbow snake  Tlaloc   (Tecutli, Tlaloque) (path under the  earth, wine of earth, long cave?)   In Aztec  mythology, god of rain, thunder, and lightning.  He controlled mountain springs and weather.  Tlaloc lived in a luxurious paradise, Tlalocan,  peopled by those who had drowned or had been  killed by lightning. One mural from Tepantitla  (first   to   sixth   century   c.e. )   in   Teotihuacán  portrays the god in his heaven, where there  are flowers and butterflies. He is attended by  priests, water flows from his hands, and aquatic  creatures play at his feet. The souls of those  who live in his paradise are portrayed in the  lower half of the work and seem to be extremely  happy. However, during Tlaloc’s feast, called  Etzalqualiztli (13 May), children and virgins  were sacrificed to him. His offspring by his wife  Chalchihuitlicue were the Tlalocs, or clouds.  See also:   chalchihuitlicue  Tlazolteot l   (Tlaculteutl)   (lady   of   dirt)   In  Aztec mythology, sex goddess who produced  lust and then forgave the sinner. The ritual  Tlazolteot l   959

=== 페이지 977 ===
freeing people from sins included a number of  confessions to the priests of this goddess. The  people would then be freed of all sins commit -  ted throughout their lives, and they would also  be released them from any legal consequences.  They were only allowed one such confession  in a lifetime. According to Fray Bernardino  de Sahagún in   Historia general de las cosas de  Nueva España   (1570–1582), the goddess was  also   known   as   Ixcuina   (two-faced)   and   had  four aspects: the goddesses Tiacapán, Teicu,  Tlacotl, and Xocutzin. All four “had the power  to produce lust” and “could provoke carnal  intercourse   and   favored   illicit   love   affairs.”  These four aspects of the goddess are believed  by C. A. Burland in   The Gods of Mexico   (1967)  to be “the four phases of the moon” and associ -  ate the goddess with witchcraft.  Tobit   (God is good)   In the Bible, Apocrypha,  hero, along with his son Tobias. The tale is  included in the Latin Vulgate as part of sacred  scripture and was so accepted by the church  until the Protestant Reformation. Even Martin  Luther, who rejected many books from the  standard canon, admired the work, saying he  preferred it to Esther, a book that he intensely  disliked.  Tobit, a devout and charitable Jew living  in exile in Nineveh, was blinded by sparrows  “muting warm dung into his eyes.” He sent his  son Tobias with his faithful dog (in the Bible the  dog is always looked on as dirty and unclean,  except in this tale) to a distant city to collect a  debt. The boy met a companion, a young man  who was the angel Raphael in disguise. Tobias,  with the help of Raphael, succeeded in col -  lecting the money. Tobias then met a woman,  Sarah, who was afflicted with a demon who  had killed each of her seven husbands on their  wedding nights. With Raphael’s aid, Tobias  exorcised the demon, married Sarah, returned  home with her, and cured his father’s blindness.  At the end of the tale Raphael reveals himself  to them.  Christian art has often portrayed Tobias  with the angel and a fish. On Tobias’s journey  Raphael saved him from being eaten by a great  fish. He instructed Tobias to catch the fish,  roast it, and eat it but to save the heart, liver,  and gall. The first two were used to exorcise  the evil spirit haunting Sarah, and the gall  was used to cure Tobit’s blindness. One of the  most famous paintings portraying this legend is  Tobias and the Angel   from the school of Andrea  del Verrocchio. Franz Joseph Haydn composed  an oratorio   Tobit.  Toci   (Tozi, Temazcalteci) (our grandmother)  In Aztec mythology, goddess and one aspect of  Tlalzolteotl. Fray Diego Durán, in his   Book of the  Gods and Rites   (c. 1576), calls Toci the “Mother  of the Gods and Heart of the Earth.” According  to C. A. Burland, in   The Gods of Mexico   (1967),  Toci was a “life-giving spirit” who “cleansed  sins and cared for her little grandchildren.” She  presided over the sweat bath. Her image was  placed above the doorway.  See also:   tlalzolteotl  To-Kabinana   and   To-Karvuvu   In Mela-  nesian mythology, the first two men created by  a nameless creator god. One day the creator god  drew two male figures on the ground and sprin -  kled them with his blood, giving them life. To-  Kabinana was regarded as the creator of good  things, and his brother, To-Karvuvu, was respon -  sible for all of the trouble in the world. Beautiful  women were created by To-Kabinana when he Return of Tobias to Tobit  960   Tobit

=== 페이지 978 ===
dropped two coconuts on the ground. When his  brother repeated the act, women with flat noses  emerged because the coconuts fell in the wrong  position. In another myth To-Kabinana created  fish from a wooden image. When his brother  repeated the act, he created the shark.  tomato   A fruit-bearing plant in the night -  shade family, introduced in Europe in the 16th  century by Spaniards returning from Mexico. In  European folklore, the tomato was sometimes  identified as the fruit eaten by Adam and Eve  in the Garden of Eden, though it is not named  in the account in Genesis. The Austrians call  the tomato   Paradies Apfel   (paradise apple). In  French folklore, the tomato was believed to be  poisonous, but in small amounts it was believed  to be an aphrodisiac. The French call it   pomme  d’amour   (love apple).  See also:   adam and eve  Tom Quick   In American folklore, “Indian  Slayer” or “The Avenger of the Delaware.”  According to one legend, Tom avenged him -  self on various Indians for the murder of his  father by Mushwink, an Indian, whom Tom  later met and killed. One legend tells how he  tricked the Indians. As he was splitting a log,  he found himself surrounded by Indians. They  were ready to take him back to camp and tor -  ture him, but Tom asked them if they would  help him split the log first. The Indians pulled  at the log, but instead of driving the wedge in  farther, Tom knocked it out and slaughtered  the Indians with the ax.  Tonacatecutli   (Tonacateotle)   (lord   of   our  existence)   In   Aztec   mythology,   consort   of  Tonacacihuatl,   with   whom   he   lived   in   the  ninth, or highest, heaven. They had four sons,  who were guardians of the four cardinal points.  Tonacatecutli was also known as Tzinteotl (god  of the beginning), Tonaca Cihuatl (queen of  our existence), Xochiquetzal (beautiful rose),  Citlallicue (the star-skirted, or the Milky Way),  Citlaltonac (the star that warms, or the morn -  ing), Chicomecoatl (the seven serpents), and  Chicomexochit (seven flames).  Tonapa   (Thunupa, Taapac)   In Bolivian In-  dian folklore, culture hero. Tonapa was a blue-  eyed man who came from the north with five  disciples. He preached against war, drunkenness,  and polygamy. Makuri, a cruel tyrant, roused  the people against Tonapa’s preaching, and they  set his house on fire while he was sleeping. He  escaped but was later caught by Makuri, who  martyred the disciples and left Tonapa for dead.  According to Ramos Gavilan, writing in  1621, Tonapa’s body was placed in a boat that  “sailed away with such speed that those who  had tried so cruelly to kill him were left behind  in terror and astonishment for they knew the  lake had no current.”  Tonapa was identified with St. Bartholomew  in some Christian-Indian legends because he  carried a cross on his back as he went to see  Makuri, and St. Bartholomew was martyred on  a cross. Scholars believe Tonapa to be a version  of Tupan (Toupan), the thunder god of the  Botocudo Indians of Brazil.  See also:   bartholomew, st.  Tonatiuh   In Aztec mythology, a sun god,  fourth in a series of sun gods. Tonatiuh gave  strength to warriors, receiving them along with  women who died in childbirth, into his para -  dise, which was identical with Tollan (place of  the seed), the Aztec paradise where crops grew  in abundance. Offerings of human hearts and  blood were made to the god. In some Aztec  accounts he was thought of as an eagle who flew  near the sun with the souls of the heroic dead.  Tontuu   In   Finno-Ugric   mythology,   spirit  of a somewhat capricious nature who watches  over the welfare of a household, rewarding its  members with corn and money.  Tony Beaver   In American folklore, comic  hero of the West Virginia lumberjacks whose  antics   often   take   place   in   the   Cumberland  Tony Beaver   961

=== 페이지 979 ===
Mountains.   In   one   tale   he   built   a   wagon  cart that covered ten acres of land to carry  watermelons. When the wagon broke, causing  melons to fall into the Eel River, his friends  each straddled a seed and rowed away. Tony  is credited with inventing peanut brittle: once  when a river was overflowing, Tony took some  molasses and peanuts, and threw them into the  river to stop it up. Tony Beaver’s tales are told  in Margaret Prescott Montague’s   Up Eel River.  Too-Roo-Dun   In Australian mythology, an  evil water spirit who seizes his victims and eats  them.  Torongoi and Edji   In Siberian mythology,  the first man and woman. Both Torongoi and  Edji were created with fur on their bodies to  keep them warm. They were told they could  eat fruit from branches that pointed toward  the sunrise but were not allowed to eat from  branches that pointed to the sunset. To help  the couple, God set a dog and a snake to bite  the devil if he came. When God returned to  heaven, the devil came, crept into the skin of  the sleeping serpent, and tempted the woman  with the forbidden fruit. She persuaded her  husband to eat it too. They both became so  frightened afterward that the fur fell off their  bodies. When God came down from heaven,  Torongoi and Edji hid. God asked them what  happened. Torongoi said Edji made him eat the  fruit; Edji said the snake made her eat the fruit;  the snake said the devil was inside him; and the  dog said he had seen nothing.  See also:   abuk and garank; adam and eve;  ask and embla; khadau and mamaldi  Tortoise and the Birds, The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world.  A tortoise became dissatisfied with his lowly  life when he beheld so many of his neighbors  the birds in the clouds, and he thought that if  he could but once get up into the air, he could  soar with the best of them. One day he called  on an eagle and offered him all of the treasures  of the ocean if he would only teach him to fly.  The eagle tried to decline the task, assuring  him that the thing was not only absurd but  impossible, but being further pressed by the  entreaties and promises of the tortoise, he at  length consented to do the best he could. He  took the tortoise up to a great height and loosed  his hold on him. “Now, then!” cried the eagle.  But before the tortoise could answer a word, he  fell on a rock and was dashed to pieces.  Moral:   Don’t try to fly if you don’t have wings.  The legend that the Greek dramatist Aeschy -  lus was killed when a tortoise was dropped on  his bald head by an eagle is believed to have  derived from this fable. The fable appears in the  Indian collection the   Kacchapa Jataka,   in which  a tortoise, holding a stick in its mouth, is carried  by two birds. It falls when it opens its mouth to  rebuke the birds that are scoffing at it. Buddha  cites it as a lesson to a talkative king.  See also:   aesopic fables;   jataka  Tortoise and the Hare, The   A Korean  etiological tale answering the question of why  the hare’s lip is split (motif number A2342.1). A  dragon king who lived in the East Sea is dying  and can only be saved if he can eat the fresh,  raw liver of a hare. Since none of the animals  in his kingdom can live on land, it seems that  the king is destined to die. The dragon king  remembers, however, that the tortoise can live  on both land and water, and he is thus sent on  the errand. When the tortoise finds a hare, the  latter is willing to help and rides on the back of  the tortoise down to the depths of the ocean.  The hare soon learns of his fate but tricks all  assembled by saying that it will do no good to  slit open his belly because he removes his liver  every day and only puts it back at night. He  explains that his lip is split so that he can more  easily take the liver out during the day and  replace it in the evening. The tortoise is then  commanded to take the hare back to dry land  to fetch the liver. The hare then hops away to  safety, but the tortoise is still left with finding a  962   Too-Roo-Dun

=== 페이지 980 ===
cure for the dragon king. Suddenly, a god with a  long beard appears and tells the tortoise to take  some ginseng root to his king and that this will  heal him. When the king devours the root, he  is healed, and the tortoise is rewarded with the  position of the highest minister in the court.  See also:   motif  totem   In world religion and mythology, a  North American Indian (Ojibwa) word for a  plant, animal, or other natural object that is  revered by a group because of its relationship  to the tribe, which often believes it is descended  from the totem. People of the same totem are  forbidden to marry, and the totem animal or  plant is not to be eaten except at certain ritual  times. Some tribes tattoo the totem on their bod -  ies, make masks, or carve totem poles. Frazer’s  Totemism and Exogamy   (1910; 4 volumes) and  Freud’s   Totem and Taboo   (1918), which is based  in part on Frazer, offer elaborate theories on the  origin of religion and various cultic practices.  Tou Mu   In Chinese mythology, goddess of  the North Star, who is portrayed on a lotus.  She is accompanied by two attendants, Yu Pi  and Tao Fu. Sometimes she is seen with the star  gods of longevity and affluence.  Town Mouse and the Country Mouse,  The   Aesopic fable found in various European  collections.  A country mouse who had a friend in town  invited him, for old acquaintance sake, to pay  him a visit in the country. Though plain and  rough and somewhat frugal in his nature, the  country mouse opened his heart and store in  honor of an old friend. There was not a carefully  stored-up morsel that he did not produce from  his larder—peas and barley, cheese parings and  nuts—to please the palate of his city-bred guest.  The town mouse, however, turned up his  long nose at the rough country fare. “How is it,  my friend,” he exclaimed, “that you can endure  the boredom of living like a toad in a hole? You  can’t really prefer these solitary rocks and woods  to the excitement of the city. You are wasting  your time out here in the wilderness. A mouse,  you know, does not live forever; one must make  the most of life while it lasts. So come with me  and I’ll show you life and the town.”  In the end the country mouse allowed him -  self to be persuaded, and the two friends set out  together on their journey to town. It was late  in the evening when they crept stealthily into  the city, and midnight before they reached the  great house where the town mouse lived. On  the table of the splendid banquet room were  the remains of a lavish feast.  It was now the turn of the city mouse to  play host. He ran to and fro to supply all of his  guest’s wants. He pressed dish after dish and  dainty after dainty on his friend, as though he  were waiting on a king. The country mouse,  for his part, pretended to feel quite at home  and blessed the good fortune that had wrought  such a change in his way of life. But in the  midst of his enjoyment, just as he was begin -  ning to feel contempt for his frugal life in the  country, the sound of barking and growling  could be heard outside the door.  “What is that?” said the country mouse.  “Oh, that is only the master’s dogs,” replied  the town mouse.  “Only!” replied the visitor in dismay. “I  can’t say that I like music with my dinner.”  At that moment the door flew open and  a party of revelers, together with two huge Aesop’s The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse  Town Mouse and the Country Mouse, The   963

=== 페이지 981 ===
dogs,   burst   into   the   room.   The   frightened  friends jumped from the table and concealed  themselves in a far corner of the room. Finally,  when things seemed quiet, the country mouse  stole out from his hiding place and, bidding  his friend goodbye, whispered in his ear: “This  fine way of living may do for those who like it.  But give me my barley bread in the security of  my country home in preference to your dainty  fare partaken with fear and trembling.”  Moral:   A crust eaten in peace is better than a  banquet partaken in anxiety.  Horace, in his   Satires   (book 2), tells the  fable to point out that wealth brings along with  it many problems, though one wonders if his  readers were convinced. La Fontaine also tells  the tale in his collection of fables, though he  substitutes rats for mice.  See also:   aesopic fables; la fontaine, jean  de  Tree   and   the   Reed,   The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world.  “Well, little one,” said a tree to a reed,  “why do you not plant your feet deeply in the  ground, and raise your head boldly in the air  as I do?”  “I am contented with my lot,” said the reed.  “I may not be so grand as you, but I think I am  safer.”  “Safe!” sneered the tree. “Who shall pluck  me up by the roots or bow my head to the  ground?”  That night a hurricane arose and tore the  tree from its roots and cast it to the ground, a  useless log. The reed, however, bent with the  force of the wind during the hurricane and  stood upright again when the storm was over.  Moral:   Obscurity often brings safety.  In the great Indian epic poem   The Mahab -  harata,   a similar fable is told in which the sea  complains that the rivers bring down to it oaks,  but not reeds. Shakespeare, in   Cymbeline   (4:2),  seems to refer to the fable in the dirge: “To thee  the reed is as the oak,” and Wordsworth’s poem  The Oak and the Broom   develops the subject in  his typical moralistic manner, ending with the  oak being “whirled” far away while  The little careless broom was left  To live for many a day.  See also:   aesopic fables;   mahabharata  tree of Jesse   In Christian lore, tree or root  of Jesse, an Old Testament ancestor of Christ.  This is frequently seen in medieval art, particu -  larly in stained-glass windows. According to the  genealogy in the Gospel of Matthew (1:6), Jesse,  father of King David, started the royal line that  ended in Christ, the Messiah. Representation of  the tree of Jesse in medieval art (usually shown  sprouting from the loins of a reclining Jesse) is  based on the prophecy of Isaiah (11:1–2): “And  there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of  Jesse, and a Branch shall grow out of his roots:  And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him.”  Saint Ambrose interprets the passage thus: “The  root is the family of the Jews, the stem Mary, the  flower of Mary is Christ.”  See also:   ambrose, st.  Tree   of   Life   In   Germanic   folklore   and  mythology, a symbol of life, fertility, blessings,  and luck. This symbol is often found in knit -  ting and embroidery works in a dowry, on beds  where babies are born, in ironworks produced  by a blacksmith, in carvings and painting above  a doorway, and on trunks and chests. The  tree   often   appears   with   six-petaled   flowers  or stars and sun wheels. Some scholars have  sought deeper meanings for the tree, associat -  ing it with the tree in the Garden of Eden; the  Germanic world tree Yggdrasill, where Odin  hung; the Christmas tree; and the tree of fate  found in many fairy tales.  See also:   christmas;   poetic edda ;   prose  edda ; yggdrasill  Trial, The   In a Cambodian Kingdom, a  young man wishes to take a wife. He asks the  964   Tree and the Reed, The

=== 페이지 982 ===
parents of the young girl he wishes to marry for  their permission, but they tell him that he must  first undergo an ordeal. His legs will be bound  and he will be submerged up to his neck in a  lake for three days. The man agrees to the trial  so that he can marry the woman he has chosen.  After standing in the water for two days and two  nights he sees a fire on a hillside far away. It is  the fire of his intended’s parents. He raises his  arms out of the water and holds them toward  the fire on the top of the hill. The parents see  this and claim that he has not fulfilled the trial  and thus cannot marry their daughter, but he  is still required to prepare a banquet for them  all. The young man complains to a magistrate,  but to no avail. On his way home he decides to  ask for help from Judge Rabbit. The judge tells  him to prepare for the banquet, but when he  makes the soup he is to leave the salt in a sepa -  rate dish. Judge Rabbit and the magistrate are  invited to participate in the banquet. When the  magistrate asks the young man why there is no  salt in the soup, Judge Rabbit replies for him:  “The fire on the hill was assumed to give heat.  How is it then that the salt for the soup, in a  container nearby, does not flavor the soup?”  The case was then reversed, and the young  man took the young girl as his wife.  See also:   rabbit  trickster   In world mythology and folklore,  an amoral, bisexual being—human, animal, or  a combination—who is both a creator-hero and  a destroyer, knowing neither good nor evil, yet  often being responsible for both in the world.  The trickster lacks a moral consciousness and  may   represent   one   of   humankind’s   earliest  attempts to deal with the problem of good  and evil. The trickster often suffers from his  own pranks and is punished in various myths,  perhaps because a morally conscious human -  kind must resolve the problem of unpunished  crime. In North American Indian mythology,  for example, Coyote is a trickster, whereas  Spider is the trickster in certain regions of  West Africa: In Dahomey, Legba, youngest  son of the creator god, is a trickster. In Greek  mythology, Prometheus is a trickster, fooling  Zeus, then paying a price for his misdeed. In  Norse mythology, Loki is the trickster, often  persuading both gods and people to behave  in a manner in direct opposition to their best  interests. In general, the character of the trick -  ster is erotic (in one North American Indian  myth he extends his penis across a river to rape  a girl on the other side), greedy, imitative, stu -  pid, clever, pretentious, and deceitful. In one  North American Indian myth, he decrees that  people must die, and then, seeing his own son  die, is incapable of bringing him back to life.  Often the trickster dies in the tale but is alive  in the next story or is brought back to life. The  cartoon characters Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck,  Woody Woodpecker, and Road Runner are the  best modern examples of the trickster. They  are alternately blown up in explosions, run over  by trains, and catapulted into outer space, but  they emerge unscathed and victorious.  See also:   br’er fox; br’er rabbit; coyote;  eshu; iktomi; iwa; kana; legba; loki; pro -  metheus; qat; sido; spider; tagaro; zeus  Tri-loka   (three   worlds)   In   Hinduism,   the  three divisions of the universe. An early divi -  sion   was   Dyu-loka   (bright   realm,   the   sky),  Antar-loka   (middle   realm,   the   atmosphere),  and Bhur-loka (beings realm, the earth). The  notion of separate heavens and hells does not  occur before the sixth century   b.c.e.   at the ear -  liest. The three principal gods over the three  realms were Surya, Indra, and Agni.  See also:   agni; indra; surya  Trimurti   (having three forms)   In Hinduism,  a triad of gods made up of Brahma, Vishnu, and  Shiva. The concept, however, is not typical of  everyday Hinduism.  See also:   brahma; shiva; vishnu  Tri-ratna   (triple   jewel)   In   Buddhism,  the Buddha, the Dhara, and the Sangha. In  Buddhist art the Tri-ratna is sometimes por -  Tri-ratna   965

=== 페이지 983 ===
trayed as three large egg-shaped gems, with  the narrow ends directed downward and the  central member placed slightly above the other  two. The whole composition is surrounded by  flames. Called Triratna in Pali, it is an insepa -  rable unit; Buddha manifests Dharma and the  Sangha preserves it. Buddhist services com -  monly begin by taking refuge in the Triratna.  See also:   buddha, the; dharma; sangha  Trisiras   (three-headed)   In   Hindu   mythol -  ogy, a demon killed by the storm god Indra; he  symbolizes heat, cold, and sweating. Trisiras is  also used as a name for Kubera, god of wealth.  See also:   indra; kubera  Tristram   and   Iseult   (Tristran,   Trystan,  Ysolde, Ysonde, Yseult, Isold, Isolte, Yseulte,  Isot, Izot) (sad, tumult)   In medieval legend,  two lovers whose romance became associated  with the Arthurian cycle of legends. Tristram’s  legend is found in nearly all medieval European  languages. He was the son of Blanchefleur, sister  of King Mark of Cornwall, and Meliadus. The  father died in battle at the hands of Morgan  when Tristram was born. In another account his  mother died in childbirth. Kurvenal (Rohand,  Rual), a faithful friend of Blanchefleur, took  the child and reared him as his own. Tristram  grew up without knowing who his real parents  were. He became a knight, a hunter, and a harp  player. One day he boarded a Norwegian vessel  and eventually landed in Cornwall. He found his  way to King Mark’s court, and the king informed  him of his parents and their fate. After hearing  the story of his father’s death at the hands of  Morgan in battle, he determined to avenge  it. He immediately set out, slew Morgan, and  recovered his father’s lands at Lyonesse, which  he entrusted to Kurvenal. When he returned to  Cornwall, he found that King Mark had to pay  Morold, brother of the king of Ireland, a tribute  of 300 pounds of silver and tin and 300 youths to  be handed over to slavery. Tristram challenged  Morold to combat. Morold, who was a giant and  had a poisoned sword, accepted. Morold’s sword  pierced Tristram’s side. Morold told Tristram  that if he surrendered he would help him obtain  balsam from Iseult (Isolde, Ysolde) to cure him.  Tristram would not yield but, in a burst of ener -  gy, attacked and slew Morold. He cut through  Morold’s helmet and pierced the giant’s skull,  which was so hard that a fragment of his sword  remained embedded within the wound.  The people of Cornwall were delighted,  and King Mark, who had no son, proclaimed  Tristram his heir. Tristram’s wound, however,  would not heal. He decided to seek Iseult’s aid.  Knowing that she would not help him if she  knew his identity, he arrived in Ireland calling  himself   Tantris,   a   minstrel.   Iseult,   charmed  by his music, cured him of his wound. Tris -  tram remained at the Irish court for some  time, spending many hours with Iseult. After  some months had passed, Tristram returned to  Cornwall, where he related to King Mark the  story of his cure. He also told of the beauty of  the young Iseult, and King Mark expressed a  Tristram and Iseult   (Aubrey Beardsley)  966   Trisiras

=== 페이지 984 ===
desire to marry her. On the advice of the court -  iers, who were jealous of Tristram and hoped  he would fail in the mission, the young hero  was sent to Ireland to ask for Iseult’s hand and  to escort her safely to Cornwall.  When Tristram arrived in Dublin, the peo -  ple were being threatened by a dragon, and  he realized that the best way to win Iseult for  King Mark would be to kill the dragon. After  a fierce battle he slew the monster, cut out the  dragon’s tongue, and placed it in his pocket.  He had gone only a few steps when he fell  down exhausted. A few moments later another  knight, seeing the dead dragon and the body of  a knight nearby, cut off the dragon’s head and  went back to the palace claiming he had killed  the dragon. However, Iseult and her mother  did not believe the knight and went to the  scene. They found Tristram with the dragon’s  tongue in his pocket.  They took him to the palace to nurse him  back to health. While the young Iseult sat  beside her sleeping patient, she idly drew his  sword from its scabbard. Suddenly her eye  caught the broken blade, a piece of which had  been found in her Uncle Morold’s skull. She  was about to kill Tristram when her mother  stopped her, saying Tristram atoned for the  deed by saving them from the dragon. When  Tristram   had   recovered,   he   challenged   the  lying knight, won, and then asked for the hand  of Iseult for King Mark. Iseult was stunned  because she had believed Tristram had come for  her hand for himself. But she obeyed her father  and prepared to leave. To help save her daugh -  ter, her mother brewed a magic love potion,  which was put in a golden cup and entrusted to  BranGwain, Iseult’s attendant. The potion was  to be given to Iseult and King Mark on their  wedding day. On the journey Tristram enter -  tained Iseult with songs. One day, after singing,  he asked for a drink. She went to the cupboard  and took the magic potion, not knowing what  it was. The two drank from the cup, and the  potion aroused in them a passionate love for  each other. Still, they resolved to hide their  love and continue as planned. Iseult landed in  Cornwall and married King Mark. BranGwain,  who knew all that had happened, tried to shield  her mistress.  In time the love of the two was known, and  Meliadus, a knight who hated Tristram, told  King Mark. The queen was publicly accused  and   compelled   to   prove   her   innocence   by  undergoing the ordeal of fire or by taking a  public oath that she had shown favor to none  but King Mark. On her way to where the  ordeal was to take place, Iseult was carried  across a stream by Tristram disguised as a beg -  gar and, at his request, kissed him in reward for  his service.  When Iseult was called on to take the oath  before the judges, she could swear that, with  the exception of a beggar, no other man than  the king had received her favor. Tristram, how -  ever, went mad. When he recovered, he went  to the court of King Arthur, but he was again  wounded, this time by a poisoned arrow. Again,  he could not be cured. Afraid to go again to  Iseult for balsam, Tristram went to Brittany,  where   another   Iseult—Iseult   of   the   White  Hands—equally   skilled   in   medicine,   nursed  him back to health. Iseult of the White Hands  believed that Tristram loved her as much as  she loved him because she heard him sing of  Iseult and did not know another existed with  the same name. Tristram married Iseult of the  White Hands, but he did not love her or show  any signs of affection. He could not forget  Iseult of Cornwall. When his brother-in-law  Ganhardin discovered the truth, he forgave  Tristram and asked him to take him to Corn -  wall, for Ganhardin had fallen in love with a  portrait of BranGwain. On their way the two  knights aided King Arthur in freeing himself  from the Lady of the Lake. They also car -  ried off Iseult of Cornwall to Lancelot’s castle  of Joyeuse Garde. There Iseult of Cornwall  remained with Guinever.  Once again Tristram was wounded. This  time Iseult of the White Hands could not cure  him, and Iseult of Cornwall was called on.  Tristram and Iseult   967

=== 페이지 985 ===
Iseult   (Aubrey Beardsley)

=== 페이지 986 ===
Kurvenal, who went to fetch Iseult of Corn -  wall, said he would change the black sails of  the vessel for white if his mission was success -  ful. Tristram now watched impatiently for the  returning sail but died just as it came in sight.  When Iseult of Cornwall arrived and saw his  body, she too died. Both bodies were carried to  Cornwall, where they were buried in separate  graves by order of King Mark. But a vine grew  from Tristram’s grave to Iseult’s. It was cut  down three times but always grew back.  Tristram’s   legend   has   inspired   numerous  poems, such as   Tristan und Isolde   by Gottfried  von Strassburg,   Tristram and Iseult   by Matthew  Arnold,   Tristram   of   Lyonesse   by   Swinburne,  part of   Idylls of the King   by Tennyson, and   Tris -  tram   by Edwin Arlington Robinson. The most  important musical work about Tristram, hav -  ing a great effect on all 19th-century musical  development, is Wagner’s   Tristan und Isolde.  See also:   arthur  Triton   (being in the third day)   In Greek  mythology, merman, half man, half fish; son of  Poseidon and Amphitrite; brother of Albion,  Charybdis, Benthesicyme, and Rhode. Triton  appears in Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 6), in which  he drowns Misenus, a human, for daring to  challenge him to a musical contest on conchs.  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 2) has him appear  in the story of Deucalion, the Flood myth,  in which he blows his horn or conch shell to  summon the waters to retreat. In European  art Triton appears in Bernini’s Trevi Fountain  and Triton Fountain in the Piazza Barberini  in   Rome.   Wordsworth   cites   Triton   in   his  “Sonnet” (1807), in which he wishes to “hear  old Triton blow his wreathed horn.”  See also:   aeneid, the ; amphitrite; deuc -  alion; poseidon  Troilus and Cressida   In medieval legend,  two lovers; he was faithful, but she was not.  The medieval tale developed out of Greco-  Roman mythology. Troilus was the son of King  Priam of Troy. In Vergil’s   Aeneid   (book 1) Troi -  lus is said to have thrown down his arms during  a battle and to have fled in his chariot. He was  transfixed with a spear thrown by Achilles. In  medieval legend he had a love affair with Cres -  sida, an older Trojan woman. Chaucer’s long  narrative poem   Troilus and Criseyde   is partly  based on the   Filostrato   of Boccaccio. Troilus, a  prince of the royal house of Troy, scoffs at love  and lovers until one day he sees the beautiful  Criseyde, a young widow, at the temple of the  Palladium. He falls madly in love with her.  Pandarus, her uncle and Troilus’s friend, coaxes  his secret from the timid youth and promises  to help him with his niece. Pandarus finds Cri -  seyde sitting with the women, poring over tales  of knights and chivalry. Pandarus tells Criseyde  that Troilus is madly in love with her. After he  leaves, a ballad sung by Antigone sets Criseyde  to daydreaming. At this moment, Troilus rides  by her window, returning from a battle with  the Greeks, amid the shouts of the people. The  next day Pandarus returns with a letter, which  Criseyde at first refuses to receive but at last  consents   to   answer.   Pandarus   persuades   his  niece to go to the palace on a plausible pretext  and so contrives to have the lovers meet. He  next invites Criseyde to supper at his home, Triton  Troilus and Cressida   969

=== 페이지 987 ===
telling her that Troilus is away and cannot be  there. Criseyde is induced to spend the night at  her uncle’s house because of a storm. Pandarus  comes to her room with the news of Troilus’s  unexpected arrival. She consents to see him,  and later the two make love.  Criseyde’s father is a traitor in the Greek  camp. He sends for his daughter in an exchange  of prisoners. The lovers are heartbroken at the  parting, but Criseyde, with vows that “shake  the   throned   gods,”   swears   to   return   in   10  days. She soon discovers that no pretext for  return will avail because her father, a priest,  has foreknowledge that Troy is destined to be  destroyed by the Greeks. Diomede, a young  Greek, pays court to Criseyde and wins her,  though she grieves for Troilus. But there is no  need for her to repent; she will make amends  by being true to her new lover. When Troilus  can no longer continue to believe Criseyde is  faithful, he seeks death in battle and is slain by  Achilles.  In English the name Criseyde became a  byword for faithlessness in love. Shakespeare  took up the story in his play   Troilus and Cressida,  with licentiousness as his main theme. Troilus  himself is meant to represent constancy, “As  true as Troilus.” William Walton’s opera   Troilus  and Cressida   is based on Chaucer’s work.  See also:   achilles;   aeneid, the ;   iliad, the ;  priam  Trojanu   (Troiaw)   In   Slavic   mythology,   a  spirit of darkness who possessed wax wings.  He was believed to be the spirit of the Roman  emperor Trajan, who conquered the Dacians  in the first century   c.e.   Often in mythology a  feared enemy was worshipped as a demon god  in the hope of appeasing his anger. Trojanu is  cited in   The Lay of Igor’s Army.  See also:   lay of igor’s army, the  troll   (to tread, giant, monster)   In Scandinavian  folklore, a dwarf who lives in caves and hills.  Originally, trolls were giants. In general they are  skillful craftsmen but are not smart.  Trophonius   (increaser   of   sales)   In   Greek  mythology,   underworld   god;   son   of   Apollo  whose oracle at Lebadeia in Boeotia, between  Athens and Delphi, was associated with the dei -  ties of the underworld. Pausanias’s   Description  of Greece   (book 9) tells of the elaborate ritual  associated with the god. After ritual prepara -  tion worshippers were sent down into a hole  and   swept   along   by   an   underground   river.  When they came out at the end they were in a  daze, having heard mysterious voices. A short  period of rest was required for them to regain  their senses. Trophonius also is the name of a  brother of Agamedes, son of Apollo, who built  temples at Delphi. Apollo rewarded them with  a peaceful death. Some accounts say both the  hero and god are one and the same, the god  being a deified mortal.  See also:   apollo; delphi  Troy   Ancient Phrygian city, main site of  the   Trojan   War,   also   called   Ilion   (Latin,  Ilium); believed to be located near present  day   Hissarlik,   in   northwest   Turkey,   some  four miles from the Dardanelles. In Greek  mythology   the   city   was   originally   founded  by Dardanus, who called it Dardania. He was  succeeded by his son Erichthonius, who was  succeeded by Tros, who had three sons. One  son, Ilus, renamed the city Ilion, and later it  was called Troy. In the city was the sacred  Palladium, a cult wooden image of the god -  dess Athena. As long as the city retained the  image, no harm could come to it. The image  was taken by the Greeks during the Trojan  War when they invaded the city and destroyed  it. For centuries it was believed that Troy was  the invention of Homer in his   Iliad   and never  actually existed. Heinrich Schliemann, how -  ever, believed in Homer’s account and went in  search of the city. Between 1870 and 1873 he  discovered what he believed, and present-day  scholars agree, to be the site of Troy as repre -  sented in Homer.  See also:   athena; dardanus; palladium;  troy  970   Trojanu

=== 페이지 988 ===
Ts’ai Shen   In Chinese legend, the deified sage  Pi Kan, worshipped as the god of wealth. Pi Kan,  who is believed to have lived in the 12th century  b.c.e.,   was noted for his profound wisdom. His  relative, the emperor Chou, was reproved by the  sage for his wickedness. The emperor became  so angry that he ordered Pi Kan’s heart to be  torn out. He had always heard that the heart of  a wise man had seven orifices, and he wished to  know how wise Pi Kan actually was. Ta’ai Shen is  worshipped throughout China, where there are  numerous home shrines and temples dedicated  to him. In art there are two forms of Ta’ai Shen,  a civil form and a military form.  See also:   hun tun; shen  Tsao Kuo-chiu   (930–999   c.e. )   In Chinese  Taoist mythology, one of the Pa-Hsien, the  Eight Immortals. Of noble birth, he is por -  trayed in court dress holding a pair of castanets  in one hand.  See also:   pa-hsien  Tsao   Shen   In   Chinese   legend,   a   deified  mortal worshipped as the god of the hearth or  kitchen. In homes, pictures of Tsao Shen are  placed near the stove. He is worshipped with  offerings of meat, fruit, and wine in an annual  ceremony. After the ceremony is finished, the  picture is taken down and burned, together  Ts’ai Shen, god of riches  Tsao Kuo-chiu  Tsao Shen  Tsao Shen   971

=== 페이지 989 ===
with paper money presented to the god. Then  a new picture of the god is placed on the wall  for the coming year. Tsao Shen is portrayed in  court costume.  See also:   shen  Ts’ien K’eng   In Chinese legend, a deified  mortal who lived chiefly on mother-of-pearl.  He is said to have been the orphan son or  grandson of the emperor, being 767 years old  at the end of the Yin dynasty in 1123   b.c.e.   He  is portrayed as an old man reclining on the  waves because he could sleep in the water for a  day at a time. He also could lie motionless for  a year until covered with dust an inch thick.  After living 150 years he looked no more than  20 years old.  Tu   (erect, to stand)   In Polynesian mythol -  ogy, war god, called Ku in Hawaii, to whom  human sacrifices were made. A whole family of  gods called Ku existed in Hawaii.  Tuan Mac Carell   (Tuan Mac Cairill)   In  Celtic   mythology,   the   sole   survivor   of   the  Partholonians,   the   first   people   to   set   foot  in Ireland. He was an Irish chief who went  through a series of metamorphoses. Tuan Mac  Carell’s legend is told in the   Book of the Dun  Cow,   a manuscript dating from about the 11th  century. He tells some Christian monks that  he has lived hundreds of years, being a descen -  dant of the first man to set foot in Ireland,  Partholan. In his various transformations he  was a deer, a boar, an eagle, and a salmon. In  his last form he was eaten by Queen Carell and  was born again as a man.  Tuatha de Danann   (people,   tribe,   nation)   In  Celtic mythology, the gods and the people or  descendants of the goddess Danu, who was  a mother goddess and culture heroine. The  Tuatha   de   Danann   invaded   Ireland   from   a  magic cloud, giving battle to the earlier inhab -  itants, the Firbolgs, who had arrived years ear -  lier. They pushed the Firbolgs back, taking the  best part of the country for themselves. Then  the Tuatha de Danann battled and defeated  the Fomorians, who had replaced the Firbolgs,  but they in turn were defeated by the incom -  ing Milesians, who deified, worshipped, and  enshrined the Tuatha de Danann in under -  ground kingdoms.  See also:   danu; fomorians  Tuisco   In Germanic mythology, a primeval  god who issued from the earth, according to  the Roman writer Tacitus in his   Germania.   He  traces the origin of the Germans to Tuisco and  his son Mannus, who had three sons.  See also:   audhumla  Tulugal   In   Australian   mythology,   man’s  shadow, which is cared for by the creator god  Daramulum.  Tu-lu’kau-guk   In   Eskimo   mythology  (Unalit peoples at Bering Strait), raven father,  creator of everything.  Tumudurere   In Melanesian mythology, god  of the dead in New Guinea; he rules Hiyoyoa,  which lies under the ocean near Maivara on  Milne Bay.  Tunghat   In   Eskimo   mythology   (Unalit  peoples at Bering Strait), supernatural beings  whose spirit power is controlled by shamans.  Tuonetar   In the epic poem   The Kalevala  (rune 16), daughter of Tuoni (death).  Once the culture hero Vainamoinen con -  structed a magic boat but discovered he could  not complete the work without the proper  magic   words.   He   went   in   search   of   them  in Tuonela, the land of the dead. When he  came to the River of Death, he saw “Death’s  stumpy daughter,” Tuonetar, washing clothes.  She asked him how he expected to cross the  river without dying. He offered her various  lies, which she detected, and finally told her  the truth. She then helped ferry him across  972   Ts’ien K’eng

=== 페이지 990 ===
the River of Death, but he did not find the  magic words. He was informed, however, that  the primeval giant Antero Vipunen possessed  them. He then went in search of the giant and  eventually obtained the magic words.  Tuonetar is also known as Tuonen Tytto  (death’s maiden) as well as Loviatar (half-blind  daughter of Tuoni).  See also:   antero vipunen;   kalevala, the ;  vainamoinen  Tuoni   (death)   In Finnish mythology, god of  death who rules over Tuonela, the land of the  dead, sometimes called Manala or Ulappala  (wasteland).  The land of the dead was reached by cross -  ing a black bridge that spanned black water. In  the river were   kynsikoski   (rapids) that made the  way treacherous. On the black water glided a  majestic swan. In his   Four Legends for Orchestra  Sibelius has two movements that deal with  Tuonela. “The Swan of Tuonela” evokes, with  English horn, the majestic swan, and “Lem -  minkainen in Tuonela” portrays the death of  Lemminkainen at the hands of a herdsman  after the hero attempted to kill the swan. Lem -  minkainen is murdered and his body borne on  the icy waters to Tuonela. Tuoni is also called  Mana or Kalma (grave).  See also:   lemminkainen; swan; tuonetar  Turong   In Australian mythology, mischie -  vous spirits who play tricks on hunters.  Tursas   (giant)   In the Finnish epic poem   The  Kalevala   (rune 2), a water spirit who aided the  culture hero Vainamoinen in sowing the earth.  At one time Vainamoinen found that although  all of the seeds he planted made a rich forest,  there was no oak, the “tree of heaven.” The  reason was that the oak was asleep inside the  acorn. The culture hero wondered how he  could magically conjure it out of its hiding  place. After Vainamoinen consulted five water  maidens,   the   water   spirit   Tursas   arose   out  of the waves. He burned hay that the water  maidens had raked together and planted the  acorn in the ashes of the hay. Quickly a tree  arose that was so large it blotted out the sun.  Terrified at what had happened, Vainamoinen  wanted to destroy the oak. He called on his  mother, Luonnotar, who sent a pygmy, armed  with copper, who transformed himself into  a giant and cut down the tree, scattering its  trunk to the east, its top to the west, its leaves  to the south, and its branches to the north.  The chips from the fallen oak were later used  to make magic arrows.  See also:   kalevala, the ; vainamoinen  Turtle and Tortoise   In world folklore, the  turtle and tortoise are often not distinguished  from each other. In Chinese mythology the  tortoise represents the watery element, the  Yin principle, and is called the Black Warrior.  In medieval Christian symbolism it represents  modesty. In Japanese mythology the tortoise  or turtle represents longevity and good luck.  In Greek mythology the tortoise was sacred  to   Aphrodite   and   Hermes,   and   in   Roman  mythology to Venus and Mercury. The well-  known fable The Hare and the Tortoise is best  known for its moral tag: “Slow and steady wins  the race.”  See   also:   aphrodite; hermes; mercury;  venus; yin and yang  Turtle   (Konrad Gesner)  Turtle and Tortoise   973

=== 페이지 991 ===
Tutankhamen   (the living image of Amen)  (1361–1352   b.c.e. )   Egyptian pharaoh whose  tomb   was   discovered   in   1922   by   Howard  Carter and Lord Carnarvon in the Valley of the  Kings in Egypt.  Tutankhamen was the successor of Akhena -  ton.   The   young   pharaoh   was   Akhenaton’s  son-in-law, or possibly his son, brother, or  close   relation.   Originally,   the   pharaoh   was  called Tutankhaten (gracious of life is Aten),  which indicated that he was a follower of the  cult of Aten, the sun disk. He changed his  name to Tutankhamen when he came to power  because the Theban priests had restored the  worship of Amun-Ra, which had been rejected  by   Akhenaton,   who   worshipped   Aten.   The  wife of Tutankhamen, following her husband’s  move, changed her name, Ankhensen-paaten,  to   Ankhesenamen,   indicating   her   allegiance  to the god Amun-Ra. The young pharaoh was  probably murdered. He was succeeded by a  minister, Ay. Treasures from his tomb have  been displayed throughout the world.  See also:   akhenaton; amun; aten; ra  Tutugals   In   Australian   mythology,   spirits  who punish children for being evil.  Tuulikki   (Tellervo) (wind)   In Finnish myth-  ology, the wind spirit, daughter of Tapio, the  forest god, and his wife, Meilikki.  Twashtri   (Tvastr) (architect)   In Hindu myth-  ology, artisan of the gods. Twashtri carries a great  iron ax, forging thunderbolts for the storm god,  Indra. He is invoked to bestow offspring and  forms husband and wife for each other while still  in the womb. He also develops the seminal germ  in the womb and is the former or shaper of all  human and animal life. He corresponds in many  aspects with Hephaestus and Vulcan.  See also:   hephaestus; indra; vulcan  Twe   In African mythology, a spirit god who  inhabits Lake Bosomtive in Ghana. This lake  occasionally loses all of its water under the  drying rays of the sun. Twe emerged from the  lake one day and wished to make love to an old  woman. The woman at first refused him, saying  that it would be difficult for her to find water  and food for a child if she were to become  pregnant. Twe assured her that all she had to  do was bang on the edge of the lake and fish  would come to her. Hearing this, she agreed  to their union and bore Twe a son named Twe  Adodo. Twe’s son was to become the founder of  a clan that believes the spirit of Twe, his father,  helps them whenever they go fishing.  Twelve   Nights   In   Germanic   folklore   and  mythology, the days before and after Christmas,  typically sometime between St. Thomas day (21  December) and Three Kings Day (6 January).  Some scholars believe this tradition reached back  to a midwinter festival, as with Germanic Yule, or  perhaps even further back to an Indo-European  festival. These days are considered magical days  when many of the usual laws of physics or society  do not apply. During this time, the dead or the  ghosts of the dead appear, sometimes even well-  known figures, such as the White Horseman  ( Schimmelreiter ) and Wodan. Some of these festi -  vals feature masked figures. Each of the 12 nights  is used to predict the weather during the next  12 months. There are also certain activities that  are prohibited, such as washing clothes, baking,  fertilizing the fields, and spinning wool, as well  as certain foods that are not to be eaten, such as  nuts, and taboos about using certain names, such  as wolf, fox, rat, and mouse. Other prohibited  activities include lending, keeping cattle in the  stalls, and covering water, all of which suggest a  pre-Christian origin.  See also:   magi; thomas, st.; wodan; yule  Two Brothers, Tale of   Egyptian literary  folktale, also known as “Anpu and Bata,” writ -  ten about 1225   b.c.e.  Anpu and Bata were brothers. Anpu, the  older, was married; Bata, the younger, worked  for him in the field, becoming so proficient at  his labor that it was said the spirit of God was in  974   Tutankhamen

=== 페이지 992 ===
him. Bata was so good at his work, in fact, that  even the cattle spoke to him, and he understood  them. One day while the two brothers were  working in the field, Anpu sent Bata back to the  farm to get some grain. Bata did as he was told,  but before he could return Anpu’s wife tried to  seduce him. When he rejected her advances,  she told her husband that Bata had tried to rape  her. Anpu became enraged and set out to kill his  younger brother, but Bata escaped with the help  of the sun god Ra. The two brothers later met,  and to prove his innocence Bata swore an oath,  cut off his penis, and cast it into the water, where  it was eaten by a catfish. After numerous adven -  tures Bata died and was reborn again as the pha -  raoh, and Anpu became heir to the throne, thus  reversing the order of primogeniture.  The   attempted   seduction   of   a   virtuous  youth by an older woman is found in numerous  mythologies. Among the most famous exam -  ples are those of Potiphar’s wife in Genesis  (39:7–20), who attempted to seduce Joseph,  and Hippolytus and Phaedra in Greek mythol -  ogy. According to some scholars, the “Tale of  Two Brothers” is based on a myth of two gods,  Anubis (Anpu) and Bet (Bata). Anubis was the  well-known jackal god of Egypt, and Bet was a  pastoral god whose cult image was a mummi -  fied ram or bull. There is little agreement as to  what the tale actually signifies, although most  scholars agree that it served for entertainment  rather than for religious or moral purposes.  See also:   anubis; hippolytus; joseph; osiris;  phaedra  Two Brothers, The   A Korean tale of broth -  erly love. Long ago two loving and kind broth -  ers took care of their widowed mother until her  death and always divided everything they had  equally. When they harvested their field, each  always took exactly half, until one late autumn  evening one of the brothers thought that his  newly married brother could use more rice. In  the night he took a sack of rice to his brother  but did not tell him of his act of kindness. The  next morning he discovered that he still had  exactly the same number of sacks as he had  before giving one away. The next night he did  the same thing, and once again found the same  number on the following morning. A third  time he tried this, and loaded up the sack of  rice on his shoulders and set out. Along the way  he spotted another man carrying something on  his back, and when they approached each real -  ized that the other man was his brother. The  younger brother thought that his brother could  use the extra sack because his family was even  larger. These brothers lived long lives, working  hard and doing many good things together.  Two Pots, The   Aesopic fable found in vari -  ous collections throughout the world.  Two pots, one of brass and one of earthen -  ware, had been left on the bank of a river. When  the tide rose they both floated off down the  stream. The earthenware pot tried its best to  keep aloof from the brass one, which cried out:  “Fear nothing, friend, I will not strike you.”  “But I may come in contact with you,” said  the other, “if I come too close; and whether I  hit you or you hit me, I shall suffer for it.”  Moral:   The strong and the weak cannot keep  company.  An allusion to the fable occurs in the Old  Testament   Apocrypha,   “Have   no   fellowship  with one that is mightier and richer than thy -  self; for how agree the kettle and earthen pot  together?” (Ecclus. 13:2). There is a Talmudic  proverb: “If a jug fall on a stone, woe to the jug;  if a stone fall on a jug, woe to the jug.”  See also:   aesopic fables;   talmud  Two-Toe Tom   In American folklore, a 14-  foot alligator, in Alabama marsh country near  Montgomery,   who   ate   people   and   animals.  When his pond was dynamited by Pap Haines,  the monster escaped by an underground route  and later ate Haines’s 12-year-old daughter.  Typhon   (hurricane,   hot   wind,   smoke)   In  Greek mythology, a monster, son of Gaea and  Tartarus, with a hundred snake heads that spit  Typhon   975

=== 페이지 993 ===
out fire. He attacked Zeus, who now was the  ruler after he had defeated Cronus, his father.  Zeus hurled thunderbolts at Typhon and hurled  him down to the underworld. Typhon was said  to be buried under Mount Etna, according  to some accounts. Before he was imprisoned,  however, he fathered with Echidna a host of  monsters,   including   Cerberus,   Orthus,   the  Nemean Lion, the Sphinx, the Chimera, and  the Lernean Hydra. Typhon appears in or is  cited in Hesiod’s   Theogony,   Homer’s   Iliad   (book  2),   Aeschylus’s   Prometheus   Bound   and   Seven  Against Thebes,   Vergil’s   Aeneid,   (book 9), and  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 5).  See also:   echidna; gaea; hesiod hydra;  iliad, the ; tartus; zeus  Tyr   (god shining)   In Norse mythology, one of  the Aesir, a war god son of Odin and Frigga. He  lost one hand when he placed it in the mouth of  the Fenrir wolf. Tyr was the patron of the sword  and athletic sports. The   Prose Edda   describes Tyr  as “the most daring and intrepid of all the gods.  ’Tis he who dispenses valour in war, hence war -  riors do well to invoke him.   .   .   . He is not regard -  ed as a peacemaker among men.” Tuesday was  named after the god. In Anglo-Saxon mythology,  Tyr is called Tiw, Tiv, or Ziv, or identified with  the god Saxnot. During the Roman period Tyr  was called Mars Thingsus and associated with an  assembly hall where men met to settle disputes.  Tyr’s name is also given as Tîwaz.  See also:   fenrir; frigga; odin;   prose edda  Tzitsimine   (the monsters descending from  above)   In Aztec mythology, spirits of women  who died in childbirth and who returned to  plague the living. They appeared skull-faced  and brought children sickness and injury, as well  as contagious diseases. Sometimes a Tzitsimine  would appear sitting on a lonely rock, weeping.  When a passerby would ask what was wrong,  she would display her skull face, frightening  the person almost to death.  Tyr, the only god brave enough  to feed Fenrir, the monster wolf  976   Tyr

=== 페이지 994 ===
6  977  U  Ubshukinna   (Ubshukenna,   Upshukkinaku)  (chamber   of   destinies)   In   Near   Eastern  mythology (Babylonian), heavenly council hall  of the gods. It was reproduced in the earthly  temple complex, where the Zag-Muk, the great  New Year celebration, was held. The ceremony  honored the hero god Marduk, who on that  day told the destiny of men for the coming year  from the tablets of fate.  See also:   marduk; zag-muk  Uccaihsravas   (neighing   loudly,   long-eared)  In Hindu mythology, the horse of the storm  god, Indra.  See also:   indra  Ueuecoyotl   (the old, old coyote)   In Aztec  mythology,   god   associated   with   sex,   useless  expenditure   on   ornament,   and   unexpected  pleasures—all three condemned by the puri -  tanical Aztecs.  Ugolino, Count   (13th century)   In Italian  history and legend, a leader of the Guelphs  in   Pisa.   Ugolino   was   raised   to   the   high -  est honors, but Archbishop Ruggieri incited  the Pisans against his rule. His castle was  attacked, two of his grandsons were killed, and  the count and his two sons and two surviving  grandsons were imprisoned in a tower; its keys  were then flung into the Arno River. All food  was withheld from the group. On the fourth  day, Ugolino’s son Gaddo died, and by the  sixth day his son Anselm and the two grand -  children died. Last of all the count died. The  prison cell has since been called “The Tower  of Famine.” Dante’s   Divine Comedy   (Inferno)  portrays Ugolino as devouring the head of  Archbishop Ruggieri while frozen in the lake  of ice in hell. In   The Canterbury Tales   Chaucer  has the monk briefly tell the story of Hugeline  of Pise.  See also:   chaucer  Count Ugolino and His Sons  in Prison   (William Blake)

=== 페이지 995 ===
Uguku and Tskili   In North American Indian  mythology (Cherokee), the hoot owl and the  horned owl, who went down to the hollow of  a tree where the first fire burned. It burned so  fiercely that the smoke nearly blinded Uguku  and Tskili, and the wind carried the smoke, mak -  ing white rings around their eyes.  Uixtocihuatl   In Aztec mythology, salt god -  dess whose festival, Tecuilhuitontli, was held  on 2 June. A woman was sacrificed in her honor  at the pyramid of the rain god, Tlaloc.  See also:   tlaloc  Ujigami   In   Japanese   Shinto   mythology,  tutelary or special guarding deity of a clan or  locality.  Ukko   (old   man)   In   Finnish   mythology,  sky god, often used for God. Ukko replaced  the   earlier   Jumala,   a   semiabstract   term   for  God, who was sometimes addressed as Kuoja  (creator). Ukko is sometimes called Pauanne  (thunder), indicating that his role is similar  to that of Zeus in Greek and Thor in Norse  mythology. He is the most frequently evoked  god in the Finnish epic poem   The Kalevala.   He  restored fire when Louhi, the evil mistress of  Pohjola, the Northland, stole the sun, moon,  and fire. Seeing the land plunged into dark -  ness, Ukko struck lightning and sent it down  to earth, where it was swallowed by a pike  in Lake Alue. Burning inside, the pike swam  about madly until it was swallowed by a larger  fish, which in turn was caught by the culture  hero Vainamoinen, who restored the fire to his  people.  Ukko was worshipped in a ceremony called  Ukko’s Wedding or Ukko’s Chest, at which  birch-bark chests containing sacrifices such as  sheep were placed on a holy mountain to be  eaten by the god. Ukko ate his share at night,  and the people ate the rest the next day. One  festival of the god was described by the Chris -  tian bishop Agricola in the 16th century. He  found that “many shameful things were done”  in honor of the great god. The bishop was  obviously referring to a sexual orgy that took  place after the people had drunk “to excess.”  Eventually, Ukko’s ceremonies were absorbed  into Christian ones, and Christ and St. John  were evoked instead of Ukko.  Jean Sibelius’s   The Origin of Fire   or   Ukko the  Firemaker,   based on rune 47 of   The Kalevala,  depicts the re-creation of fire. Scored for bari -  tone, male chorus, and orchestra, the work is,  according to music critic Cecil Gray, of “epic  power and grandeur.”  See also:   jumala;   kalevala, the ; louhi;  rune; thor; vainamoinen; zeus  Ukuhi   In North American Indian mythol -  ogy (Cherokee), the black racer snake. Ukuhi  went to search for fire, but when he found it,  he was scorched black, and ever since he has  the habit of darting and doubling back on his  tracks as if trying to escape fire.  Ulfius   In   Arthurian   legend,   a   knight   of  the Round Table. Ulfius accompanied Uther  Pendragon, King Arthur’s father, when Uther  went to Tintagel. Afterward Ulfius aided King  Arthur in his battle against the 11 kings. Ulfius  was usually accompanied by Sir Brastias.  See also:   arthur; round table; tintagel;  uther pendragon  Ulgen   (rich?)   In Siberian mythology, a cre -  ator god. Various myths are told of Ulgen’s role  in creation. According to the Altaics, Ulgen  came down from heaven to the waters with  the desire to create the earth, though he did  not know how to do it. Suddenly Erlik (man)  appeared and told him he knew how it could  be accomplished. With Ulgen’s approval, Erlik  dived down to the water’s depths and brought  up a piece of dirt. He gave part of it to Ulgen  and kept part for himself. Ulgen created the  earth with his part, and Erlik’s piece formed the  swamps and bogs of the earth.  A variant tells how Ulgen saw some mud  with humanlike features floating on the water.  978   Uguku and Tskili

=== 페이지 996 ===
He gave it life and the name Erlik. At first  Erlik was Ulgen’s friend and brother but later  became his enemy and the devil.  In another myth Ulgen created the earth  on the waters with three great fish to sup -  port it. One fish was placed in the center  and one at each end, and all were tied to the  pillars of heaven. If one fish nods, the earth  becomes flooded. To prevent this, Mandishire  (adopted from Buddhist mythology’s Bodhisat -  tva of Miraculous Birth, Manjursi) controlled  the ropes so that he could raise and lower the  earth. The fish did not like the weight and  shook it off, causing an earthquake. The earth  fractured, and pieces floated freely until Ulgen  anchored them. One of the smallest pieces  floating around spoke to Ulgen, saying it did  not want to be permanently fixed. Ulgen then  took this piece, and instead of an island he cre -  ated Erlik, the first being.  See also:   bodhisattva; earth diver; erlik;  manjursi  Uli-tarra   In Australian mythology, the first  man, who is said to have come from the east.  At the beginning of time there was no sea, only  the water from a hole that Uli-tarra dug. Uli-  tarra was the leader of an aboriginal tribe who  left one day to fight a tribe on the other side of  the mountain. They painted themselves white  and red. On the way to the battle the men came  upon two women whom Uli-tarra had once  beaten   for   misbehavior.   These   two   women  found two straight sticks and pounded them  against the ground, then they departed. The  beating of the sticks caused the ocean to form,  as well as all other bodies of water, both large  and small. As the men returned from their  journey they found that the ocean, which had  not been there before, blocked their passage.  They took the entrails of a deer and blew into  them, creating a bridge over the water. One  man tried to eat the rope the bridge was made  of but was stopped, and the men were able to  return to their homes safely.  See also:   bible, the (genesis)  Ull   (Ullur, Ullr) (the shaggy one)   In Norse  mythology, stepson of Thor and son of Sif,  Thor’s wife. He lived at Ydalir (yew valley).  He is associated with winter and is known as  an archer. In the   Prose Edda   it is said: “There  is one called Ull, the son of Sif and stepson of  Thor. He is such a good archer, and so good on  skis that none can compete with him. He is also  fair of face and has the ability of a warrior. It is  good to call on him in a duel.”  See also:   prose edda ; sif; thor  Ulrich,   St.   (wolf-powerful)   (890–973)   In  Christian legend, bishop of Augsburg and patron  of weavers. Invoked for a happy birth and a  peaceful death; against birth pangs, fever, frenzy,  mice, moles, and faintness. Feast, 4 July.  Though of delicate health, Ulrich rose to be  the bishop of Augsburg in 923 after the land had  been laid waste by the invading Magyars. He  was a model bishop according to all accounts  of his life. In a biography written by Gerhard, a  contemporary of the saint, the legend of Ulrich  as the “fish-bishop” is explained. One Thursday  Ulrich and his friend Bishop Wolfgang were  having a goose for dinner. They talked into the  late hours of the night and early morning. Friday  arrived (a meatless day), and the messenger of  the emperor arrived and saw the two men seated  at a table with a goose. Ulrich broke off one of  its legs and handed it to the messenger, who put  it into his pouch. He hurried away to show the  emperor that the two were guilty of eating meat  on a Friday. When he arrived at court, he put his  hand into the pouch and drew out a fish instead.  Numerous miracles were recorded at the  tomb of St. Ulrich, and he was the first saint  canonized by Pope John XV in 993—the first  solemn canonization by a pope of a saint. Before  that local bishops or clergy and laity would pro -  claim a saint, or legends would grow around a  person who would then be venerated as a saint.  In art St. Ulrich is usually portrayed hold -  ing a fish. Sometimes he is shown with his  copatron of Augsburg, St. Afra.  See also:   afra, st.; saints; wolfgang, st.  Ulrich, St.   979

=== 페이지 997 ===
Ulysses   (sufferer)   Latin name of the Greek  hero Odysseus, apparently Latinized to   Ulixes  by way of a dialect where   od-   was pronounced  ol-.   In English translations of Homer’s   Iliad  and   Odyssey   as far back as Alexander Pope’s,  Ulysses is the usual translation of the name. In  The Divine Comedy   Dante places Ulysses and  Diomedes among the counselors of evil in the  Eighth Circle of Hell. The two are enveloped  in a single flame divided at the top. In reply to a  request from Vergil (Dante cannot speak Greek,  so he cannot question Ulysses), Ulysses relates  how, after spending more than a year with Circe,  he was impelled to go forth and see “the untra -  velled world.” He set forth with one ship and a  few faithful companions and at last came to the  narrow strait at the Pillars of Heracles, the limit  of the habitable world. He inspired his comrades  to go forward with him into the unknown sea  and sailed westward for five months, until they  sighted a lofty mountain in the dim distance. In  the midst of their rejoicing at the sight a storm  broke from the distant land, striking their ship,  which whirled around three times and then  plunged, bow foremost, into the depths of the  sea. Medieval tradition said Ulysses was a great  liar. Later Shakespeare called him “sly Ulysses”  in his poem   The Rape of Lucrece.  Tennyson’s poem “Ulysses” (1842) presents  an entirely different aspect of the hero from  that provided by Dante. He had read H. F.  Cary’s translation of Dante, published in 1805.  Tennyson’s poem was written soon after the  death of his close friend Arthur Hallam. The  poem ends:  Though much is taken, much abides; and  though  We are not now that strength which in  old days  Moved earth and heaven; that which we  are, we are;  One equal temper of heroic hearts,  Made weak by time and fate, but strong  in will  To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.  James Joyce’s novel   Ulysses   (1922) deals with  the events of one day in Dublin in June 1904.  Its chapters roughly correspond to the episodes  in Homer’s   Odyssey.  See also:   iliad, the ; odysseus;   odyssey, the  Uma   (light)   In Hindu mythology, a form of  the great goddess, Devi, wife of the god Shiva.  See also:   devi; shiva  Umai-hulhlya-wit   In   North   American  Indian mythology (Diegueño), giant serpent. He  lived in the ocean but was called to a ceremony  after Chakopá and Chakomát had created the  earth, sun, moon, and stars. The people built a  large enclosure of brush for Umai-hulhlya-wit  to stay in. He came and coiled himself but could  not fit inside. On the third day, when he had  coiled as much of his body as possible into the  structure, the people set it aflame and burned  him. When his body exploded, all knowledge,  songs, magic secrets, languages, ceremonies,  and customs were scattered over the land.  Unas   (Unus,   Unis,   Onnos)   In   Egyptian  mythology,   a   deified   pharaoh   of   the   Fifth  Dynasty. Unas was said to have been the son of  the god Tem and to have eaten the flesh of gods  to become strong. He then journeyed through  the heavens and became Orion.  See also:   orion; tem  Uncle Remus   In American literary folklore,  black house slave, creation of Joel Chandler  Harris. Uncle Remus narrates tales of Br’er  Rabbit, Br’er Fox, Br’er Wolf, and others, col -  lected in   Uncle Remus: His Songs and Sayings.  His character is based on several blacks who  Harris knew, including George Terrell. Uncle  Remus appears in Walt Disney’s movie   Song of  the South   (1947), which combines live actors  and cartoon animation.  See also:   br’er fox; br’er rabbit; trickster  Uncle Sam   In American folklore, personi -  fication of the United States, portrayed as a  980   Ulysses

=== 페이지 998 ===
tall, lean Yankee with long white hair, chin  whiskers, striped pants, swallow-tail coat, and  star-spangled plug hat. Originally a derogatory  nickname used by New England opponents  of   the   federal   government’s   policies   during  the War of 1812, its exact origin is not fully  known. According to some accounts, Uncle  Sam is based on Samuel Wilson (1766–1854),  known as Uncle Sam, a meat inspector in Troy,  New York, who worked for Elbert Anderson.  When the initials “E.A.—U.S.” were stamped  on meat carts, the initials were explained as  meaning “Uncle Sam” had inspected the meat.  Samuel Wilson died in 1854. His grave is in the  Oakwood Cemetery in Troy, New York. Other  accounts say Uncle Sam is merely an extension  of the initials of the United States.  Thomas Nast, a prominent 19th-century  political cartoonist, produced many of the ear -  liest cartoons of Uncle Sam. However, many of  Nast’s cartoons in fact depict Yankee Doodle  or “Brother Jonathan.” It is easy to mistake  a Brother Jonathan cartoon for one of Uncle  Sam, since both figures wear star-spangled suits  of red, white, and blue. The first reported book  to name the character of Uncle Sam was writ -  ten by a “Frederick Augustus Fidfaddy” and  called   The Adventures of Uncle Sam.   The char -  acter of Uncle Sam eventually replaced that of  Brother Jonathan, a nickname once used for  New Englanders and for Americans in general.  The single most famous portrait of Uncle Sam  is the “I WANT YOU” army recruiting poster  from World War I. The poster was painted by  James Montgomery Flagg in 1916–1917.  See also:   washington, george  undine   In European folklore, a water sprite  who could be mortal if she married a human  being. An undine was created without a soul  but had the privilege of obtaining one if she  married a mortal and bore him a child. She had  to suffer all of the pains of being a human. The  creature appears in La Motte-Fouqué’s   Undine,  Giraudoux’s   Ondine,   and Tchaikovsky’s   Undine,  an early stage work by the composer, later  destroyed, though some parts were used in the  ballet   Swan Lake.  See also:   melusina  unicorn   In world mythology and folklore,  a fantastic animal usually portrayed as a small  horselike creature with a single horn protrud -  ing from its head. In European mythologies the  unicorn is usually viewed as a beneficent being.  A medieval description of the fantastic animal  is found in   Le Bestiaire Divin de Guillaume Clerc  de Normandie.  The Unicorn has but one horn in the middle  of its forehead. It is the only animal that ven -  tures to attack the elephant; and so sharp is  the nail of its foot, that with one blow it can  rip the belly out of that beast. Hunters can  catch the unicorn only by placing a young  virgin in his haunts. No sooner does he see  the damsel, than he runs towards her, and  lies down at her feet, and so suffers himself  to be captured by the hunters. The unicorn  represents Jesus Christ, who took on Him  our nature in the Virgin’s womb.   .   .   . Its one  horn signifies the Gospel of Truth.  The European belief in unicorns stems in  part from ancient pagan Greek sources as well  as the Septuagint versions of the Hebrew scrip -  ture. When the Hebrew Bible was translated  Unicorn  unicorn   981

=== 페이지 999 ===
into Greek, the Hebrew word   reem,   which  might mean a wild ox, was translated   monokeros  (one-horned). This rendering was followed in  later Latin versions of the Bible, which in turn  influenced   English   translations   such   as   the  King James Version. The Book of Numbers  (23:22) says: “God brought them out of Egypt;  he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn.”  The Revised Standard Version of the Bible in  its translation of the verse substitutes “wild  ox” for unicorn. One medieval Jewish folk -  tale said the unicorn had perished in Noah’s  flood because it was too large to enter the ark.  Another Jewish folktale argued that God never  destroys his own creation; if the unicorn was  too large to get into the ark, then God would  have let it swim behind the ark.  Along with the unicorn as a beneficent sym -  bol, such as Jesus Christ, the animal was also  identified with evil and death. In   The Golden  Legend,   a series of saints’ lives by Jacobus de  Voragine written in the 13th century, the “uni -  corn is the figure of Death, which continually  followeth man and desireth to seize him.” Death  rides a unicorn in some late medieval Books  of Hours. In the   Ancrene Riwle,   a 12th-century  book of rules for nuns, the unicorn appears as a  symbol of wrath, along with the lion for pride,  the serpent for envy, and the bear for sloth. The  Church Fathers at the Council of Trent, held in  the 16th century, forbade the use of the unicorn  as a symbol of Christ. One legend they cited was  from Leonardo da Vinci’s   Bestiary,   in which the  artist made the unicorn a symbol of lust.  The unicorn’s horn was thought to have  magic   curative   powers;   many   late   medieval  monasteries and cathedrals were believed to  possess them, and they appear in inventories of  Queen Elizabeth I and other monarchs of the  period. Powders purporting to be made from  crushed unicorn horns were sold by apothecar -  ies. As late as the French Revolution the unicorn  was believed to exist, and a “unicorn’s” horn was  used to detect poison in food fed to royalty.  In Chinese mythology the unicorn was one  of the four animals of good omen, the others  being the phoenix, the dragon, and the tor -  toise. According to one story, when Confucius  was born, a unicorn spit out a piece of jade with  the inscription announcing the event: “Son  of the essence of water, kingdoms shall pass  away, but you will be a king, though without a  throne.” James Thurber, in his   Fables for Our  Time   (1940), includes a comical episode called  “The Unicorn in the Garden.”  See also:   confucius;   golden legend, the ;  noah; thurber, james  Unktomi   (Inktomi)   In   North   American  Indian   mythology   (Oglala   Dakota),   spider,  the trickster, both culture hero and creator.  Variants of his name among the tribes are  Iktomé, Ikto, Ictcinike, and Ictinike.  See also:   inktomi; spider; trickster  Unkulunkulu   (chief)   In   African   mythol -  ogy (Zulu), a self-originating deity, sky god  who   instituted   marriage.   Unkulunkulu   sent  a chameleon with the message of life and a  lizard with the message of death. On the way  the chameleon stopped to eat, and the lizard  arrived with his death message, which he deliv -  ered. To compensate humankind for the loss of  immortality, Unkulunkulu instituted marriage  so that people’s lives were carried on through  their children. He also provides doctors to treat  diseases and fire for the preparation of food.  See also:   olorun mulungu; wele  Unquiet Grave   English ballad, collected in  F. J. Child’s   English and Scottish Popular Ballads  (1882–1885). In the ballad the dead sweetheart  begs the surviving lover to stop mourning over  the grave because it disturbs the dead.  Unsinkable   Molly   Brown   In   American  history and folklore, Molly Brown, wife of a  Colorado millionaire; she was on the   Titanic  when   it   struck   an   iceberg   in   1912.   Molly  stripped down to her corset and bloomers, had  her pistol strapped to her side, and covered a  child with her chinchilla coat. She took com -  982   Unktomi

=== 페이지 1000 ===
mand of one lifeboat, saying, “Keep rowing,  you sons of bitches, or I’ll toss you all over -  board.” When she was asked why she had been  saved when so many others died, she replied,  “I’m unsinkable.” She always went by the name  Maggie, not Molly. That nickname was added  decades later when her life was dramatized in  the Broadway musical comedy   The Unsinkable  Molly Brown,   and in a film in 1964 that deals  with her life and legend. The script bears only  a passing resemblance to her real story.  Untsaiyi   (brass)   In North American Indian  mythology (Cherokee), trickster who loved to  gamble. Untsaiyi had always won, but once he  was fooled by a young boy who beat him at  every game. In the end Untsaiyi wagered his life  and lost. Untsaiyi’s hands and feet were tied by  the boy, and a long stake was driven through his  chest. He was then placed far out in deep water.  But Untsaiyi did not die, and according to the  myth, “cannot die until the end of the world.”  He lies in the water with his face up. Sometimes  he struggles to get free. Sometimes the beavers,  his friends, come to gnaw at the ropes to release  him, but two crows sitting atop the stake cry  out, “ka, ka, ka,” and scare the beavers away.  Unwilling Magician, The   This Tibetan  story concerns a king and his sister who live in  a great palace. The description of the palace is  reminiscent of the Potala in the city of Lhasa,  and the figure of the Oracle has long been a  part of traditional Tibetan culture. A traveling  merchant is passing through the land and when  he finishes with his business he decides to pay  a visit to the royal palace. Because he is tired,  he lies down under a willow tree and sleeps  until awakened by a cook preparing pancakes.  The merchant looks on eagerly and finally  approaches the cook, who promises him one  of the cakes if he can tell him how many he  has prepared. Because the merchant has been  watching, he is able to announce that the total  is 59, and the one he is to receive is number  60. The story of the merchant’s ability soon  spreads, and the king asks him to help find a  lost turquoise. Not knowing what to do, the  merchant, who cannot sleep, spends the night  calling out his father’s name, Wahsa. It so hap -  pens that the thief who stole the jewel is also  named Wahsa, and he bids the merchant not  to identify him if he returns the turquoise. The  king is so impressed at the merchant’s ability to  recover the stone that he calls on the merchant  again to find a lost horse. Again unable to sleep,  the merchant looks out the window at night  and   spots   three   shadowy   figures   below   his  window. He drops feathers on them and in the  morning is able thereby to identify the thieves.  Now the king asks the merchant to find all the  donkeys from a caravan traveling through the  countryside. Fearing that he will now be found  out, the merchant flees into the dark of night.  He spots another traveling in front of him  and soon catches up, only to learn that he is  in fact the donkey thief. When this is told to  the king, the merchant is offered the hand of  the king’s sister in marriage. The concluding  line, as in most Tibetan tales, ends with the  closing formula “The sun of happiness shone  on the mountaintop and the staff of misery was  washed away in the river.”  Upanishads   (Sanskrit, from   upa,   “additional,”  and   ni-sad,   “to sit down at the feet of a teacher”)  In Hinduism, a collection of philosophical  writings composed over a period of time, the  most important being from about 500   b.c.e.   The  Upanishads are generally in prose, but some are  in verse. There are at least 150 of them. They  discuss the origin of the universe, the nature of  deity, the nature of the soul, and the relationship  between mind and matter. The German phi -  losopher Schopenhauer kept a Latin translation  of the Upanishads on his table and read it before  he went to bed. He wrote of it: “From every sen -  tence, deep, original and sublime thoughts arise,  and the whole is pervaded by a high and holy  and earnest spirit.   .   .   . They are the products of  the highest wisdom. They are destined sooner  or later to become the faith of the people.”  Upanishads   983

=== 페이지 1001 ===
Upirikutsu   (great star)   In North American  Indian   mythology   (Pawnee),   Morning   Star,  who overcame Evening Star in her realm of  darkness. From their union the first human  was created. A memorial sacrifice of a captive,  often a female, was offered to Morning Star  until 1838.  Uraeus   Ancient Egyptian image of the cobra  goddess   who   guarded   the   king;   commonly  found on royal headdress.  Urania   (heavenly)   In Greek mythology, one  of the nine Muses, the Muse of astronomy  and   celestial   forces;   daughter   of   Zeus   and  Mnemosyne. Among the ancients Urania was  one of the most important of the nine Muses  and was considered the arbiter of fate. Some  myths say she was the mother of Linus by  Apollo   and   the   mother   of   Hymenaeus   by  Dionysus. However, in   Paradise Lost   (book 7.1)  Milton calls on Urania as the Muse of poetry.  Her symbol is a globe.  See also:   apollo; dionysus; zeus  Uranus   (heaven,   sky)   In   Greek   mythol -  ogy, the sky; son and husband of Gaea, the  earth;   called   Coelus   by   the   Romans.   Gaea  bore him the Titans, the Cyclopes, and the  Hecatonchires. He did not allow any of his  children to see the light of day but pushed  them into Tartarus, a gloomy place in the  underworld. Gaea persuaded her Titan sons  to   attack   their   father.   Led   by   Cronus,   the  youngest of the seven, they surprised Uranus  as he slept and castrated him with a flint sickle  given them by their mother. From the blood  dropping upon the earth, Gaea bore the three  Erinyes, the Furies, and the Melic nymphs.  Some accounts say Aphrodite was born from  the sea foam stirred up when Uranus’s geni -  tals fell into the sea. Cronus, son of Uranus,  became king. Before he died, Uranus proph -  esied that Cronus also would be dethroned by  a son. Eventually, Zeus dethroned his father,  Cronus. Ouranos (overhanging heavens) was  another name for Uranus. Hesiod’s   Theogony  (133–87, 616–23) tells of Uranus’s fate.  See also:   aphrodite; gaea; hesiod; nymphs;  titans; zeus  urban   legend   In   American   folklore,   the  term used to identify contemporary legends,  some but not all of which have a modern and  urban setting. These tales frequently deal with  death, horror, mutilation, sex, foodways, and  many other weird happenings or close calls.  Stories   abound   about   microwaved   animals,  roasted babies, creatures in sewers or coke  bottles, and devils who frequent dance halls.  Most scholars see these stories as commentary  on the nature of impersonal industrialized soci -  ety. A story of a rat found in a basketful of fried  chicken suggests anxiety over uncleanliness at  fast food emporia and the disappearance of the  family meal. A story of placing a baby in the  oven to cook is seen as a response to the relax -  ation of abortion laws and the development of  contraceptive pills. Jan Harold Brunvand has  identified more than 500 different legends and  has attempted to trace, wherever possible, the Urania  984   Upirikutsu

=== 페이지 1002 ===
source of the tale. The legend of the Blood  Libel, for example, has been documented dur -  ing the Roman Empire.  See also:   blood libel legend; vanishing  hitchhiker  Urd   (Urdhr)   (the   past)   In   Norse   mythol -  ogy, one of the three named Norns, the others  being Verdandi and Skuld. Urd is the oldest of  the Norns and looks to the past.  See also:   norns; skuld; verdandi  Uriel   (the   light   of   God)   In   Jewish   and  Christian mythology, one of seven archangels  in rabbinical angelology. His name is found on  Jewish amulets as a charm to ward off evil.  Unlike the archangels Michael, Gabriel, and  Raphael, all of whom are mentioned in the Bible,  Uriel appears to be less important since he is not  mentioned there, though he is found in the Old  Testament Apocrypha Book of Second Esdras  (4:1). Uriel also appears in the   Book of Enoch,  a   pseudoepigraphic   Jewish-Christian   work   in  which he is the watcher over the world and over  Tartarus, the lowest part of hell. He serves as the  principal guide to Enoch in his various visions.  According to one Christian legend, Uriel,  not Christ, appeared to the disciples on the  way to Emmaus, though the New Testament  text does not support this contention. In Jew -  ish literature Uriel is often called the “one who  brings light to Israel.” In   Paradise Lost   (book  3:690) Milton, recalling the Jewish belief, calls  Uriel the “Regent of the Sun” and “sharp -  est-sighted spirit” of all in heaven. Dryden, in  his poetic play   The State of Innocence,   based on  Milton’s   Paradise Lost,   pictures Uriel descend -  ing from heaven in a chariot drawn by white  horses. Less dramatic is Longfellow’s Uriel in  The Golden Legend,   in which Uriel is one of the  seven angels of the seven planets bearing the  star of Bethlehem.  Uriel is rarely portrayed in Christian art.  When he is, he is shown holding a book or  scroll, symbolic of his role as interpreter of  visions and prophecies, as in the cases of Enoch  and Esdras. Burne-Jones’s painting of Uriel  portrays the angel in the traditional pose. Uriel  is also known as Nuriel and is sometimes iden -  tified with the Flaming Angel.  See also:   enoch; flaming angel; gabriel;  michael; raphael  Urim and Thummin   (lights and perfection)  In   the   Bible,   O.T.   (Exod.   28:30),   two   cult  objects used to determine the will of Yahweh,  the Hebrew god. Scholars are not quite sure  what   they   were   but   believe   their   markings  made them resemble dice. They were carried  in the breastplate of the high priest. They fell  out of use in post-exilic times, perhaps as a  result of the development of a higher concep -  tion of the deity.  See also:   yahweh  Urna   (wool)   In Oriental art, the jewel or  small protuberance between the eyes, or circle  of hair or eye, seen on gods and Buddhas, rep -  resenting the third eye for spiritual vision or  foreknowledge. The Urna seems to be a circle  of hair in the earliest texts. It then becomes an  eye and is represented as an eye, a bump, or a  jewel. Its symbolism is variously interpreted,  but basically it is just a very strong eye that illu -  minates all universes at once. Eyes are believed  to emit light.  Urre   In Arthurian legend, one of the knights  of the Round Table. When Urre was wounded,  King Arthur tried to heal him with his touch  but failed. Then Sir Lancelot tried, and Urre  was healed.  See also:   arthur; lancelot of the lake;  round table  Ursula,   St.   (bean)   (fifth   century?)   In  Christian legend, virgin martyr. Patron saint  of maidens, drapers, and teachers. Invoked for  chastity and holy wedlock and against plague.  Feast, 21 October.  There are various medieval versions of St.  Ursula’s life. In one version she is the daughter  Ursula, St.   985

=== 페이지 1003 ===
of Dianotus, a British king, and was sought  in marriage by Holofernes, a pagan prince.  Dianotus consented to the alliance, but Ursula  said she would marry the prince only if he was  baptized and she was given three years to travel  with her 11 maidens, accompanied by 1,000  companions.   The   conditions   were   accepted,  and all of the women set sail. They went to  Cologne, then to Rome, where they visited the  tombs of various saints. When they returned to  Cologne, they were all seized by Attila the Hun.  All of the women except Ursula were killed.  “Weep not, for though thou hast lost thy  companions,” said Attila, “I will be thy hus -  band, and thou shalt be the greatest queen in  Germany.”   Ursula   screamed   back   at   Attila,  causing his anger to flare up, “and bending his  bow, which he had in his hand, he, with three  arrows, transfixed her pure breast, so that she  fell dead, and her spirit ascended into Heaven,  with all the glorious sisterhood of martyrs.”  Another medieval version makes the legend  of St. Ursula a Christian parallel to the rape  of the Sabine women in Roman history. This  tale is told by Geoffrey of Monmouth in his  History of the Kings of Britain.   Maximian, the  British king, having conquered Armonica (now  called Brittany), gave it to Conan Meriadoc, his  nephew. His country being almost depopulated  by war, Conan wished to find wives for himself  and his men. He asked for the assistance of  Dianotus, brother and successor of Caradoc,  king of Cornwall. Dianotus had a daughter  named Ursula, whom he promised to Conan  as his wife. Dianotus then summoned all of the  chief men of his kingdom and also collected  11,000 maidens, whom he shipped to Conan  together with his daughter. When on the seas,  contrary winds arose, causing the fleet to go off  course. It was found in the Rhine by Huns, who  attacked the ships and killed all of the women.  See also:   attila  Urvasi   In Hindu mythology, a nymph loved  by the sage Puru-ravas; she bore him several  children.  Urvasi agreed to live with Puru-ravas on  certain conditions. “I have two rams,” she said,  “which I love as children. They must be kept  near my bedside and never allowed to be car -  ried away. You must take care never to see me  when you are undressed. And clarified butter  alone must be my food.”  Urvasi came from the storm god Indra’s  heaven, and its inhabitants were anxious for her  return, so they told the Gandharvas, heavenly  musicians, to steal the rams. Puru-ravas was  undressed when it happened, and so at first he  did not pursue the thieves. Urvasi cried, how -  ever, impelling him to take his sword and rush  after them. The Gandharvas then produced a  flash of lightning, which showed Puru-ravas  naked, thus breaking the compact. Urvasi dis -  appeared, and Puru-ravas went in search of her.  He eventually found her, and she told him she  was pregnant and would bring him the child at  the end of the year. At the end of the year he  met Urvasi, who gave him the son, Ayus. She  bore him five or eight more sons.  See also:   gandharvas; indra  Ushnisha   (head-band, turban)   In Buddhist  art, the protuberance on the top of the head  of a Buddha, variously interpreted. In some  Buddhist works the form is that of a flame,  representing enlightenment. It is one of the  major bodily characteristics of a   mahapursusha  (hero)—either of an emperor ( cakravartin ) or  Buddha.  utchat   (Udjat,   Wedjat)   Ancient   Egyptian  amulet of the eye of the sun god Ra. In the  Pyramid Texts the   utchat   is identified with the  uraeus cobra, which spat venom and fire against  the enemies of the sun god. It appeared on the  crown of the pharaoh, the living sun god, who  would also defeat his enemies.  According   to   one   myth,   the   eye   of   Ra  (Tefnut in this version) was separated from  her father, Ra, and went to live in the Nubian  desert as a bloodthirsty lion. Ra, wanting her  back, sent the god Thoth, who persuaded her  986   Urvasi

=== 페이지 1004 ===
to return; when she did, she became the god -  dess Hathor, the great deity who represented  the sky. (In Egyptian mythology the gods often  change from one form to another.) In a variant  of the myth, Tefnut was a cat, a form of the  goddess Bast, who became a lion when she was  angry. When the eye of Ra was removed from  the god (the symbol was also given to other sun  gods), it was said that a disturbance occurred in  the natural order of the universe, and that when  it was returned, the natural order was restored.  The twin   utchats   represent the eye of the sun  and the eye of the moon. One myth tells how the  powers of evil succeeded in blinding the eye of  Ra, the sun god, during an eclipse or prolonged  storm. Thoth came to the god and healed his  eye. In another myth Thoth healed the eye of  the god Horus when it was injured in his battle  with the demonic god Set. The restored eye  became known as the   utchat,   and its powers as  an amulet were thought to be extensive. The  Book of the Dead contains a spell that will cause  Thoth to bring the   utchat   to the deceased during  his journey to the kingdom of Osiris.  See also:   book of the dead, the; hathor;  horus; osiris; pyramid texts; ra; set; shape -  shifter; tefnut; thoth; uraeus  Utgard   (outer place)   In Norse mythology,  chief city of Jotunheim, the land of the giants.  Its ruler was Skrymir, who was called Utgard-  Loki (Magus of Utgard) when he encountered  Thor. Utgard appears in the   Poetic Edda   and the  Prose Edda.   In some medieval literature Utgard  and Loki are combined to form the name of a  devil in Christian folklore. The medieval world  view saw the earth as a round, flat disk, with the  ocean all the way around it.  See   also:   asgard; jotunheim; midgard;  poetic edda ;   prose edda  Uther Ben   (terrible head)   In Celtic mythol -  ogy, the head of the father of Arthur, conceived  by Eigr by means of an intrigue arranged by  Merlin.  See also:   arthur, king; bran; branwen  Uther Pendragon   (chief leader in war)   In  Arthurian legend, father of King Arthur by  Igraine, wife of the duke of Tintagel. Uther  killed the duke and later married Igraine after he  had earlier disguised himself as her husband and  made love to her. Pendragon is a title conferred  on British chiefs in times of great danger. One  legend   recorded   by   Geoffrey   of   Monmouth  tells that when the British king Aurelius was  poisoned by Ambron, there “appeared a star at  Winchester of wonderful magnitude and bright -  ness, darting forth a ray, at the end of which was  a globe of fire in form of a dragon, out of whose  mouth issued forth two rays, one of which  extended from Gaul and the other to Ireland.”  See also:   arthur; igraine; tintagel  Utnapishtim   (Parnapishtim)   (he   who   saw  light? I have found life?)   In Near Eastern  mythology, Babylonian hero of the flood myth  who was granted immortal life by the gods.  In the epic   Gilgamesh,   Utnapishtim tells his  story to the hero of the poem, who came to him  seeking immortality.  Uther Pendragon   (Howard Pyle)  Utnapishtim   987

=== 페이지 1005 ===
“I will tell you, Gilgamesh, the marvelous  story,” said Utnapishtim, “of the decision of the  gods. The city of Shurippak was corrupt, so the  gods decided to destroy it by bringing a rain -  storm upon it. The god Ea, however, warned  me, telling me to build a ship, to save myself  from the coming deluge.”  After the ship, or ark, was completed, Utna -  pishtim loaded it with gold, silver, and “living  creatures of all kinds.” He then took his fam -  ily aboard the ark. When the time came, he  entered the ark, closed the door, and entrusted  Puzar- Shadurabu, the sailor, with guiding the  vessel. When the dawn came, dark clouds arose  from the horizon, all of the light was changed  to darkness, and a storm began that lasted for  seven days. Everything was destroyed; men  were turned back to clay, from which they had  originally been made. In place of dams con -  structed by men, marshes were everywhere.  Water was over the whole earth.  After “twelve double hours” the waters began  to abate, and on the seventh day Utnapishtim  sent out a dove, but it found no resting place.  Then he sent a swallow, which also returned.  Finally he sent a raven, which did not return,  indicating that dry land had now appeared.  Utnapishtim then left the ship and offered sac -  rifices to the gods, who had relented—even the  great god Bel, who was determined to destroy  all life. The god came upon the ship, lifted up  Utnapishtim, brought up his wife, and made  her kneel by her husband’s side. The god then  blessed the couple, saying: “Hitherto Utnap -  ishtim was mortal, but now Utnapishtim and  his wife shall be gods like us.”  Utnapishtim was then placed “at the con -  fluence of the streams,” where he and his wife  were to live forever.  See also:   bel; gilgamesh; noah  utukku   In Near Eastern mythology, generic  name for demons among the Babylonians and  Assyrians.  The Babylonians believed that evil spirits  resided   everywhere,   lying   in   wait   to   attack  people. Each demon was given a name, often  describing   his   or   her   function.   Thus,   Lilu  (night spirit) and Lilitu, the female form, indi -  cated demonic spirits that worked their evil at  nighttime. Eki mmu (seizer) was a shadowy  demon that hovered around graves waiting to  attack any passersby. Rabisu (the one that lies  in wait) and Labartu (the oppressor) were the  demons who gave nightmares to the sleeping.  Ardat Lili (maid of the night) was a demoness  who   approached   men,   aroused   their   sexual  passions, and then did not permit them to  have orgasms. Other demons were Akhakhazu  (the capturer), Namtar (the demon of plague),  Ashakku (the demon of wasting disease), and  Namataru, the spirit of fate and son of the great  god Bel, who executed instructions given him  concerning the destiny of mankind.  To protect themselves against these vari -  ous   demons   the   Babylonians   and   Assyrians  evolved an elaborate series of incantations to  ward off evils. They also pictured the demons  as monstrous beings, made of animal heads and  bodies resembling human shape. With gaping  mouths and armed with weapons, the   utukku  stood ready to attack their next victim. Assyrian  kings acknowledged the power of the   utukku   by  having statues of them placed at the approaches,  entrances, and divisions of their temples and  palaces. This was done in the hope of securing  their protection instead of their vengeance. The  great bulls and lions with human heads often  seen on various monuments are part of the same  concept. These colossal statues were known as  Shedu, another term for demon. Even though  the demons assumed animal forms, they could  also make themselves invisible.  Because there were so many demonic beings,  incantations often would number them, such as  the famous text   Seven Are They :  Seven are they, they are seven,  In the subterranean deep, they are seven,  Perched in the sky, they are seven,  In a section of the subterranean deep they  were reared.  988   utukku

=== 페이지 1006 ===
They are neither male nor are they female,  They are destructive whirlwinds,  They have no wife, nor do they beget  offspring.  This ancient text was set to music by the  Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev for tenor,  chorus, and orchestra as   Seven Are They.   The  seven evil spirits are elsewhere compared to  various   monstrous   animals   with   the   power  to bewitch even the gods. The eclipse of the  moon, for example, was attributed to them.  The number seven is not to be taken literally; it  means, as in many other mythologies, a miscel -  laneous group.  Uwolowu   In African mythology (Akposso of  Togo), sky god. Uwolowu created everything,  including the lesser gods. He bestows on men  the blessings of offspring and harvest, of rain  and sunshine. He also gave man fire. He is  almighty and can impart all good things.  Various myths are told of Uwolowu. In one  he had two wives. One of them was a frog, and  the other was a bird called Itanco. Uwolowu  loved his frog wife more than his bird wife; he  gave his frog wife all sorts of pretty things but  gave nothing to his bird wife. One day he said  he would put their love to the test. He gave  each of them seven pots and made believe he  was dead. His widows were to weep for him  and let the tears fall into the seven pots. The  frog wife began to weep, but as fast as her tears  fell they were licked up by ants. Then the bird  wife wept, and her tears filled the seven pots.  Uwolowu said, “She whom I did not love has  filled seven pots with the tears which she wept  for me, and she whom I loved has wept very  little.” With these words the god lunged out  with his foot and kicked his frog wife into the  slime, where she has wallowed ever since. But  as for his bird wife, Uwolowu set her free to  roam forever in the air.  Another myth tells of the origin of death.  Once upon a time men sent a dog with a mes -  sage to Uwolowu to say that when they died they  would like to come to life again. Off the dog trot -  ted to deliver the message. But on the way the  dog felt hungry and went into a house where a  man was boiling magic herbs. The dog sat down  and thought to himself, “He is cooking food.”  In the meantime a frog had set out to tell  Uwolowu   that   when   men   died   they   would  rather not come to life again. Nobody had  asked the frog to take that message: he had  made up the lie. The dog, who still sat hope -  fully watching the man cook, saw the frog rac -  ing by but said to himself, “When I have had a  snack, I’ll catch up with froggy.”  However, the frog came in first and said to  Uwolowu, “When men die, they would rather  not come to life again.”  After the frog delivered his message, the  dog entered and said, “When men die, they  would like to come to life again.”  Uwolowu was puzzled and said to the dog:  “I really don’t understand these two messages.  As I heard the frog’s message first, I will heed  his and not yours.” That is the reason death is  in the world.  Uwolowu   989

=== 페이지 1007 ===
6  990  V  Vacub-Caquix   (Uukub Cakix) (seven macaws)  In Mayan mythology, an evil giant mentioned  in the   Popol Vuh , the sacred book of the ancient  Quiché Maya of Guatemala.  Vacub-Caquix was a being “who was very  proud of himself,” thinking he was the sun  and the moon. He was married to Chimal -  mat and had two sons: Zipacna, a giant who  carried mountains on his back and who ate  flesh and crabs, and Cabraca (double giant,  or earthquake). Vacub-Caquix and his sons  boasted that they had created the earth and  were the sun, so the gods decided to destroy  them. Two youths, the hero gods Hunahpú  and Xbalanqué, were dispatched to kill the  giant and his sons.  Vacub-Caquix had a beautiful tropical tree  that produced a very aromatic fruit. He ate  the fruit of the tree each day, climbing into its  branches. One day Hunahpú and Xbalanqué  “lay in ambush at the foot of the tree.” As soon  as Vacub-Caquix appeared they shot with a  blowgun and “struck him squarely in the jaw,”  breaking some of his teeth, and the giant fell  from the tree. Hunahpú ran over to the giant  to give the coup-de-grâce, but Vacub-Caquix  tore off Hunahpú’s arm and took it home with  him. Hunahpú and Xbalanqué then spoke with  Azqui-Nim-Ac   (great   white   wild   boar)   and  his wife, Zaqui-Nim-Tziis (great white coat).  These two are the creator man and woman in  the   Popol Vuh . They appear in different guises  throughout the book.  The couple and the two heroes then went  to Vacub-Caquix’s house. When they arrived  they heard the giant “screaming because his  tooth pained him.” Not realizing that the two  youths were the ones who had attacked him  and thinking they were the sons or grandsons  of the couple, Vacub-Caquix asked if they knew  how to cure his toothache. Pretending to help  him, the two heroes pulled out all of his teeth,  blinded him, and “took all his riches,” leaving  the giant to die. His wife, Chimalmat, also died  soon after, though we are not told how. Later  Hunahpú’s arm was restored.  The giant’s two sons, Zipacna and Cabraca,  were undone by Hunahpú and Xbalanqué later  on. Zipacna was turned into stone, and Cabraca  was fed a bird coated with chalk, which made  him weak so that he was easy prey for the two  heroes, who threw him to the ground and bur -  ied him alive.  See also:   adam and eve; hunahpú and xba -  lanqué;   popol vuh  Vacuna   In Roman mythology, a Sabine god -  dess of agriculture, later known as goddess  of leisure. She is identified in some ancient  accounts with the goddesses Victoria, Venus,  Minerva, Bellona, and Diana. Horace’s   Epistles  (1.10.49) cites the goddess.

=== 페이지 1008 ===
See also:   bellona; diana; minerva; venus;  victoria  vagina dentata   In North American Indian  folklore, a vagina with teeth. The motif concerns  the matter of pleasure during sexual intercourse,  as well as the fear that the penis will be bitten  off during sex. Most of the stories are associated  with a culture hero or a trickster. Women may  have, for example, the teeth of a rattlesnake in  their vaginas, with which they kill men during  intercourse and then rob them. They may also  use this toothed vagina for hunting purposes,  capturing animals with it. The culture hero or  the trickster often wears down the teeth with a  stone penis or some kind of wedge.  See also:   culture hero; trickster  vaginal serpent   ( chirrionera )   This story is  common in West Texas and as a Mexican and  Spanish-American legend and tells of a snake  that crawls into the vagina of young women.  In Spanish, the snake is called a   chirrionera , and  it can whistle like man wolf whistling. Women  often walk together for protection from the  snake. A pregnant woman who cannot keep up  with the others goes missing. When the men  go out to look for her, they find that her baby  has been born and the snake has choked the  baby and is wrapped around the infant. The  mother has also died.  See also:   snake  Vahagn   In Armenian mythology, sun, light -  ning, and fire god, invoked for courage because  he battled dragons. Vahagn was the son of  heaven, earth, and the sea. One old poem  describes him as having “hair of fire,” and a  “beard of flame,” and says “his eyes were suns.”  Some scholars believe Vahagn also may have  been the patron of game and hunting because  his Christian replacement in Armenian folk -  lore, St. Athenogenes, a bishop and martyr  of the early fourth century (feast, 16 July), is  patron of both. Vahagn survives also in mod -  ern folklore as Dsovean (sea-born), who with  Dsovinar, an angry female storm spirit, rules  over the seas.  Vainamoinen   (Vainanoinen, Wainamoinen)  (river’s   mouth?)   In   the   Finnish   epic   poem  The Kalevala , a culture hero, son of Luonnotar,  daughter of the air, who brought about creation.  Vainamoinen was the inventor of the harp,  “forger of the runes” or poems, and a great  magician. In Finnish mythology the heavenly  sign Orion is called the scythe of Vainamoinen;  the Pleiades, the sword of Vainamoinen. Vain -  amoinen’s home was called Vainola.  The hero’s birth forms part of the open -  ing (rune 1) of   The Kalevala , which tells how  the hero “rested in his mother’s body” for the  space of 30 years as she tossed on the waves.  The hero finally reached the shore, where the  evil Laplander Joukahainen challenged him to  a singing contest and lost, whereupon Vain -  amoinen plunged him into a swamp. In order  to save his life, Joukahainen pledged his sister  Aino in marriage to Vainamoinen. However,  the girl did not want to marry an old man.  Vainamoinen is always portrayed as old in   The  Kalevala , being called “old and steadfast.”  Joukahainen again attempted to kill Vain -  amoinen, but the hero escaped on an eagle,  which brought him to Pohjola, the Northland,  ruled by the evil mistress Louhi. She promised  her daughter to Vainamoinen if he could forge  the sampo, which magically made corn, salt,  and coins. However, the Maiden of Pohjola,  Louhi’s daughter, set additional tasks for Vain -  amoinen, not all of which he could complete,  and she eventually married Ilmarinen, who did  forge the sampo.  Vainamoinen   is   portrayed   by   the   Finn -  ish   painter   Akseli   Gallen-Kallela   as   an   old  man with a white beard and rather robust or  muscular body. Sibelius’s tone poem   Pohjola’s  Daughter   portrays Vainamoinen’s wooing of  the Maiden of Pohjola. Vainamoinen’s depar -  ture at the end of the epic when a new king of  Karelia is crowned (the king represents Jesus  Christ, and Vainamoinen symbolizes the old  Vainamoinen   991

=== 페이지 1009 ===
pagan gods), was used by Longfellow for his  description of the departure of Hiawatha in his  poem. Sibelius set   The Song of Vaino   for mixed  chorus and orchestra, using rune 43, in which  Vainamoinen calls on God to protect Finland  “from the designs of men” and “the plots of  women,” while destroying the wicked and lay -  ing low the “water wizards.”  Vaino is a shortened form of Vainamoinen  and is a common name in Finland today.  See also:   aino; hiawatha; ilmarinen; jou -  kahainen;   kalevala, the  ;   louhi; luonnotar;  maiden of pohjola; orion; pleiades; sampo  Vairocana   (Intensity   Shining)   In   Tibetan  Buddhism, one of the five Dhyani-Buddhas, the  illuminator. In Japanese Shingon Buddhism,  he is supreme. He is portrayed in Tibetan art  on a blue lotus with the Wheel of Dharma and  also mounted on a lion. His   mudra   pose is that  of teaching.  In Tibetan Buddhism, Vairocana is subsid -  iary to the Adi Buddha (Vajradhara or some  other Buddha). In Shingon he is the Adi-Bud -  dha and appears at the center of the Two Great  Mandalas. In the static mandala his   mudra   is  dhyani-mudra   and   in   the   ninefold   dynamic  mandala his   mudra   is   vairocana-mudra   (fingers  of the right hand enclosing the index finger of  the left hand, held upright before the chest). In  the Daibutsu of the Todai temple at Nara, he  displays   abhaya   and   varada   mudras. In Japanese,  he is called Dainichi Butsu.  See also:   adi-buddha; daibutsu; dharma;  dhyani-buddhas; mandala; mudra  Vajra-Dhara   (Vajra   holder)   In   Tibetan  Buddhism, the name for the Adi-Buddha. He  holds a   vajra   in each hand, which he crosses  before his chest.  See also:   adi-buddha; vajra  Vajrapani   (wielder   of   the   thunderbolt)   In  Tantric Buddhism, a Dhyani-Bodhisattva; god  of rain, a form of the Hindu god Indra, and  the spiritual son of the second celestial Buddha,  Akshobhya. He is often portrayed in a fierce  form, black or dark blue, wielding his thunder -  bolt in his uplifted right hand. In his left hand he  holds a bell, snare, or other implement, accord -  ing to which title he holds; there are some 15. He  is called Chana Dorje in Tibetan Buddhism.  See also:   dhyani-bodhisattva; indra  Vajravarahi   (Varahi)   (adamantine   sow)   In  Mahayana   Buddhism,   goddess   of   light.  According to one myth, a certain Buddhist  abbess   had   an   excrescence   behind   her   ear  shaped like a sow’s head. A Mongol warrior  wanted the abbess to show her mark, but when  the warrior and his men broke into the mon -  astery, they found only sows and pigs led by a  sow bigger than the rest. The warrior was so  startled by the sight that he stopped his men  from pillaging the place. When they left, the  sows and pigs were transformed into monks  and nuns, and the large sow into the abbess.  Vajravarahi   is   usually   portrayed   riding   a  chariot drawn by a team of swine. She is shown  with three faces, one in the shape of a sow’s  head, and eight arms. Her hands hold various  weapons, including an ax and snare. In Tibetan  Buddhism, she is called Marici.  Vaks-oza   In Finno-Ugric mythology, mill-  ruler spirit appearing as a man or woman. It  lived in the mill under the floor or behind the  waterwheel. Usually, the   vaks-oza   was friendly  to the miller, but if it was not on friendly terms,  it had to be appeased by an offering of porridge  with a pat of butter on a spoon.  Valedjád   In   the   mythology   of   the   Tupi  Indians of Brazil, the first man, an evil magi -  cian. At first there was no heaven or earth,  only a big block of rock, smooth and beautiful.  This rock was a woman. One day it split open  amid streams of blood, producing the first man,  Valedjád. Valedjád was inherently evil and once  even flooded the earth. This caused the Sun to  consider how to dispose of him. Later, when the  earth was peopled, the magician Arkoanyó hid  992   Vairocana

=== 페이지 1010 ===
in a tree and poured liquid wax on Valedjád as  he passed by, sealing up his eyes, nostrils, and  fingers so he could no longer do evil. To ensure  that Valedjád would not free himself, a large bird  flew away with him to the cold north country.  Valentine, St.   (to be strong)   (third century)  In Christian legend, patron saint of beekeepers,  engaged couples, travelers, and young people.  Invoked against epilepsy, fainting, and plague  and for a happy marriage. Feast, 14 February.  Valentine was a Roman priest who is believed  to have suffered martyrdom during the persecu -  tion of Claudius the Goth. The custom of  sending valentines on the feast day of the saint  is believed to have originated from the popular  belief that birds begin to pair on St. Valentine’s  Day. In his   Midsummer Night’s Dream   (IV, 1),  Shakespeare wrote: “Good morrow, friends! St.  Valentine is past; begin these wood-birds but  to couple now.” Chaucer also makes mention  of the fact in his   Parliament of Fowls . However,  15 February was the festival of Februta Juno  (Juno the fructifier), and the medieval church  may   have   substituted   St.   Valentine   for   the  heathen Roman goddess. An early reference to  St. Valentine’s Day as a day for lovers is found  in the   Paston Letters , in which Elizabeth Drews  wrote to her daughter’s prospective bridegroom  in February 1477: “And, Cousin, upon Friday is  St. Valentine’s Day and every bird chooseth him  a mate, and if it like you to come on Thursday  at night .   .   ., I trust to God that you shall speak  to my husband, and I shall pray that we shall  bring the matter to a conclusion.”  It was a custom in England to draw lots  for lovers on St. Valentine’s Day. The person  drawn was the drawer’s valentine and was given  a present, such as a pair of gloves. Chapman, in  Monsieur d’Olive , written in 1605, refers to the  custom when he says, “If I stood affected that  way [that is, to marriage] I would choose my  wife as men do valentines—blindfold or draw  cuts for them; for so I shall not be deceived in  the choosing.”  See also:   chaucer; juno  Valentine and Orson   (to be strong, bean)  In medieval French legend, twin brothers; sons  of Bellisant, sister of King Pepin and wife of  Alexander, emperor of Constantinople. The  twins were born in a forest near Orléans. While  Bellisant went in search of Orson, who had  been carried off by a bear, Pepin accidentally  found Valentine and took the child with him.  Valentine later married Clerimond, niece of  the Green Knight. Orson was suckled by a  bear. When he grew up, he became a wild man  and was called the Wild Man of the Forest.  His brother Valentine brought him back to  civilization.  Valhalla   (carrion-hall)   In Norse mythology,  the home of slain heroes, who are served by  the Valkyries. Its outer gate is Valgrind (the  death’s gate), and it is surrounded by a river,  Thund (swollen or roaring). All of the slain  heroes (einherjar) are kept at Valhalla waiting  for the day when they will join the gods to  fight the giants at Ragnarok, the end of the  world. The heroes feast on Saehrimnir, a boar  whose flesh is restored every night after being  slaughtered and cooked. They drink the milk  of a goat named Heidrun. The cook is called  Andhrimnir and the kettle, Eldhrimnir. While  they wait for the last day, the heroes pass the  time, according to the   Prose Edda , by riding  out into the fields and fighting “until they cut  each other to pieces. This is their pastime,  but when mealtime approaches they remount  their steeds and return to drink in Valhalla.”  Valhalla appears in the   Poetic Edda , the   Prose  Edda , Matthew Arnold’s narrative poem   Balder  Dead , and as Walhalla in Wagner’s   Der Ring des  Nibelungen .  See also:   poetic edda ;   prose edda ; ragn -  arok;   ring des nibelungen, der  Vali   (terrible)   In Norse mythology, son of  Odin and the giantess Rinda. He grew to full  stature in one day and avenged the death of  Baldur by killing blind Hodur.  See also:   baldur; hodur; odin; rinda  Vali   993

=== 페이지 1011 ===
Valkyries   (Valkyrjr) (choosers of the slain)   In  Norse mythology, the fierce daughters of Odin,  the chief of the gods. They daily chose those  who were to fall in battle, bringing them to  Valhalla, the hall of the slain. They often rode  horses but could transform themselves into  ravens or wolves. Their names vary in differ -  ent sources. Those listed in the   Poetic Edda   in  the poem   Grimismol   are Hrist (shaker), Mist  (mist), Skeggjold (ax time), Skogul (raging?),  Hild (warrior), Thruth (might), Hlok (shriek -  ing),   Herfjotur   (host   fetter),   Gol   (scream -  ing), Geironul (spear bearer), Randgrith (shield  bearer), and Rathgrith (plan destroyer?).  Richard Wagner’s “Ride of the Valkyries,”  which appears in his music drama   Die Walküre ,  part of   Der Ring des Nibelungen , is one of the  most stirring works in 19th-century orches -  tral repertory. Arthur Rackham portrays the  Valkyries in his illustrations for Wagner’s Ring  Cycle. In Old English, the word   Waelcyrge   is  used for the chooser of the slain.  See also:   poetic edda ;   ring des nibelun -  gen, der ; valhalla  vampire   In European folklore, a revenant,  someone who returns after death to haunt the  living. While the body remains buried, it is the  spirit that literally attacks the friends and rela -  tives of the deceased. Individuals who might  return were generally evildoers during life or  those had been the recipients of evil, including  murder victims, suicides, and alcoholics.  In order to rid oneself of this evil spirit-  creature, it was necessary to exhume the reve -  nant’s body and examine it for evidence. There  are, in fact, many reports of such exhumations,  many of which indicate that the body had not  completely decomposed, that there was blood  in the mouth, and that hair had continued to  grow after death. Vampires reputedly sucked  the blood of their victims, but the appearance  of blood on the lips of the corpse can be scien -  tifically explained. A decomposing body bloats,  and   blood   is   forced   out   through   the   skin,  including the mouth and lips. The traditional  way to “kill” a vampire is with a stake driven  through the heart, but there were other ways,  such as decapitation with a shovel, excoriation,  and cremation. Many items have been used to  ward off vampires, usually sharp objects such as  a knife placed under the pillow, thorns, or sick -  les, but roses were also used, perhaps because  of the thorns. Sewing roses into folk costumes  was thus not just for decoration, but also to  help ward off evil spirits like the vampire.  Vampires have been the theme of many mov -  ies, both serious and humorous. The best known  are Bela Lugosi’s 1931 film   Dracula   and George  Hamilton’s 1979   Love at First Bite . The actual  existence of people who think of themselves as  real-life vampires is well documented in Norine  Dresser’s 1989 book,   American Vampires: Fans,  Victims and Practitioners.   The Romanian hero  The Valkyries carried dead heroes to Valhalla  994   Valkyries

=== 페이지 1012 ===
of the 15th century, Count Dracul, actually had  no connections with vampires, except for his  epithet dracul, the Romanian word for devil,  and for Bram Stoker’s fictional character, who  was named Dracula.  See also:   revenant; werewolf  Vanir   (Vanas,   Vanis,   Van)   (friendly)   In  Norse mythology, a race of gods and goddesses  who lived in Vanaheim, originally fertility dei -  ties. At first the Vanir fought the Aesir, another  race of gods, but later they made a truce so  that they could fight the giants. Njord and his  children, Frey and Freya, went to live with the  Aesir gods and goddesses at Asgard in exchange  for the Aesir deities Hoenir and Mimir, who  went to live with the Vanir.  See also:   aesir-vanir war; asgard; frey;  freya; heimdall; hoenir; mimir; njord  vanishing hitchhiker   In American folklore,  a classic automobile legend. The story features  a revenant, a returning ghost. An automobile  motif was added by the early decades of the 20th  century. In all variants, some people, usually two  young men, were driving along a road when  they saw a young woman hitchhiking. They  stopped and picked up the girl, and she got into  the back seat. She told them that her family lived  just a short distance away and said nothing after  that. When they came to the house, the driver  turned around to tell her that she was home, but  when he looked around the young woman was  no longer in the back seat. The two occupants of  the car were mystified and decided to knock on  the front door of the house and tell the people  what had happened. They were told by the fam -  ily that they had indeed had a daughter who fit  the description of the girl they had picked up,  but she had disappeared, or had been killed in  an accident, many years ago. Ever since she had  been seen hitchhiking along that very road.  The story is well documented in American  legendry and even has variants among the Lat -  ter-day Saints (Mormons) of Utah. There the  ghosts are called Nephites, who help stranded  motorists on lonely mountainous highways and  often foretell the outcome of wars and make  predictions about future events or happenings.  The vanishing ghost story is not limited to the  United States.  There is a Russian variant from around 1890.  Along busy Sergievskaya Street in St. Petersburg,  a priest carrying the holy sacraments was sent to  a certain apartment after Mass. When the door  was opened, the priest said that he had been sent  to administer the sacraments to a dying man. He  was told by the person inside that a mistake had  been made and that there was no sick person  there. The priest then said that a woman on the  street had stopped him, given him this address,  and asked that he go there right away to admin -  ister the sacraments. The apartment dweller was  perplexed. The priest then saw a picture on the  wall and told the apartment occupant that it was  a picture of the very woman who had approached  him on the street. “That is a portrait of my dead  mother,” said the young man. He was seized with  fear and immediately took Communion from the  priest. That very evening he was found dead in  his apartment.  See also:   nephite legend; revenant; urban  legend; variant  Van-xuong   In Indo-Chinese mythology, god  of literature, who now lives in the Great Bear  in heaven. He is portrayed as a man standing,  holding a pen in one hand.  See also:   callisto  Var   (truth or promise)   In Norse mythology,  a goddess of the vows of love, one of the dei -  ties that surround Frigga. In the Prose Edda  it is said: “She gives a hearing to the oaths of  people and the personal agreements that men  and   women   grant   one   another;   thus   those  agreements are called varar [plural]. She takes  vengeance on those who violate them.”  See also:   frigga  variant   In folklore, the term used to desig -  nate a variation of a well-known tale type. For  variant   995

=== 페이지 1013 ===
most folklorists the terms   variant   and   version  are used as synonyms, but other folklorists  make a distinction. A version is a one-time  rendering of a specific tale, ballad, or any other  traditional oral expressive form. The term vari -  ant means a   variation   from what is conceived  to be the content of the typical, archetypal, or  original tale. Variants have been used in com -  parative studies of oral expressive forms.  See also:   motif; tale type  Varuna   (all-enveloping)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, god of the waters who rides on a fan -  tastic animal, the Makara. Varuna is married  to the goddess Varuni, who sprang up at the  Churning of the Ocean, when the gods and  demons sought the Amrita, or water of life.  Varuna’s son is called Agasti.  See also:   amrita; churning of the ocean;  makara  Vasavadatta   In Buddhist legend, a courte -  san who fell in love with Upagupta, one of the  Buddha’s disciples. Vasavadatta sent a message to  Upagupta to come to her, but he replied: “The  time has not yet arrived when Upagupta will  visit Vasavadatta.” Astonished at his reply, she  told him she did not want any money, just his  love. But again he made the same reply. Later,  after Vasavadatta had been punished for the  murder of one of her lovers by having her ears,  nose, and feet cut off, Upagupta came to see  her. “Once this body was fragrant like the lotus,  and I offered you my love. In those days I was  covered with pearls and fine muslin. Now I am  mangled by the executioner and covered with  filth and blood.” “Sister,” Upagupta replied,  “it is not for my pleasure that I approach you.  It is to restore to you a nobler beauty than the  charms which you have lost.” He then told her  of the teachings of the Buddha and converted  her so that she died in peace.  Vasus   In Hindu mythology, eight gods origi -  nally attendant on Indra, the storm god, who  is sometimes called Vasava (of the Vasus); later  they attended Vishnu. They are Ap (waters),  Dhruva (pole star), Soma (moon), Dhara (earth),  Anila (wind), Anala (fire), Prabhasa (dawn), and  Pratyusha (light). Sometimes the following are  called Vasus: the Aswins, the twin brothers who  preceded the dawn; the gods Vishnu, Shiva,  and Kubera; and the eight Adityas, children of  the goddess Aditi.  See   also:   aditi; aswins; indra; kubera;  shiva; vishnu  Vayu   (air,   wind)   In   Hindu   mythology,   the  wind and the wind god. Vayu rides with Indra,  the storm god, in a golden chariot. Vayu married  the nymph Ghritachi and had 100 daughters.  Vayu wished his daughters to accompany him to  the sky, but they all refused. Vayu then cursed  them, turning them into deformed creatures. In  some texts Vayu is made head of the Gandharvas,  the heavenly musicians, and rules over the Anilas,  49 wind gods who are associated with him.  See also:   gandharvas: indra  Varuna  996   Varuna

=== 페이지 1014 ===
Vedanta   (end of the Veda)   In Hinduism, an  interpretation of the Vedas in which everything  consists of or is reducible to one substance. This  interpretation influenced such Western writers  and thinkers as Schopenhauer, Emerson, and  Mary Baker Eddy, whose Christian Science is a  kind of Western Vedanta.  See also:   vedas  Vedas   (the knowledge)   In Hinduism, sacred  texts, the foundation of the Hindu religion. They  are regarded as divine truth breathed out by the  god Brahma. They are the Rig-Veda, Yajur-  Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda. The first  three are called the triple Veda and are liturgical  and public, the last is nonliturgical and private.  See also:   brahma; rig-veda  Vegtala   In   Hindu   mythology,   demon   in  human form who haunts graveyards and ani -  mates dead bodies. His hands and feet are  turned backwards.  See also:   preta  Velo Men   (living)   In African mythology (the  Malagasy   of   Madagascar),   little   clay   people.  They were created by Earth, the daughter of  God, and given life when God breathed into  them. They worked for Earth and made her  very rich. Since they did not die, it was obvi -  ous that Earth would continue to prosper. God,  seeing this, demanded half of the wealth they  produced, but Earth refused to give up her enor -  mous profits. God then took the breath that he  had given to the Velo Men, and since then they  grow old and die like ordinary people.  Vena   In Hindu mythology, a proud king who  was punished by the priests and then saved.  When Vena became king he issued a procla -  mation that said: “Men must not sacrifice or  give gifts or present offerings. Who else but  myself is the priest of sacrifices? I am forever  the lord of offerings.” The Brahmans (priests),  angry that the king had usurped their power,  killed the king. They realized after his death,  however, that there was no heir to the throne.  The priests then rubbed Vena’s thigh or right  arm (depending on which text is consulted) and  from the corpse came Prithu, “resplendent in  body, glowing like the fire god Agni.” (Prithu  is sometimes called Prithi-vainya, “Prithi, son  of Vena.”)  With the birth of Prithu, Vena was freed  from his sin. In some accounts the king is not  killed by the priests but only beaten, so he is  then able to retire to a hermitage and do pen -  ance. Later the god Vishnu gives Vena the gift of  becoming one with himself. Gustav Holst wrote  a   Hymn to Vena   for female voices and harp, using  his own translation of a Sanskrit text.  See also:   agni; brahman; vishnu  Venus   (arrival)   In   Roman   mythology,  ancient Italian goddess of love, wife of Vulcan  and mistress of Mars; the mother of Cupid;  identified with the Greek Aphrodite. Originally,  Venus was an Italian goddess who watched  over market gardens and was the protector  of vegetation. Her name is related to   venire  (come), connected in religion with the arrival  of spring. The day on which her temple was  founded in Rome was observed as a holiday by  the vegetable sellers. Yet it was not as goddess  of vegetation that Venus became one of the  most important deities in Roman mythology.  Instead, she was identified with the Greek god -  dess Aphrodite. Her role in Roman religion  is found in Lucretius’s work   On the Nature of  Things , which opens with an invocation to the  goddess as the great moving force in life.  At Rome Venus was worshipped as the god -  dess of erotic love. Vinalia was the festival of  Venus and Jupiter. As the mother of Aeneas and  the ancestor of the Roman people, she was given  special honors. Julius Caesar built a temple to  Venus Genetrix, the mother of the Julian family,  and established games in her honor. Venus also  was the protector of the family as Venus Verti -  cordia. It was this aspect of Venus whose image  was   bathed   and   adorned   with   flowers   each  spring by women of the upper classes. In the  Venus   997

=== 페이지 1015 ===
second century   c.e.   Emperor Hadrian wished  to restore the worship of Venus to its rightful  place. A poem, the   Pervigilium Veneris   (The Vir -  gil of Venus), believed to be of the same century,  deals with Venus’s role. It opens: “Let those love  now, who never loved before; / And those who  always loved, now love the more.” The work,  in English translation, was set to music by the  American composer Virgil Thomson.  Numerous references to Venus are found  in literature, since the Roman name for Aph -  rodite   was   used   more   frequently   than   the  Greek. She appears in Ovid’s   Metamorphoses ;  Chaucer’s “The Knight’s Tale,” part of   The  Canterbury   Tales ;   Spenser’s   “Epithalamium”;  and Shakespeare’s   The Tempest   and his long  narrative poem   Venus and Adonis , in which she  appears as goddess of lust. Milton, less erotic  than Shakespeare, writes in   Comus , “Venus now  wakes, and wakens love.”  Venus appears in the medieval Christian  legend   of   Tannhäuser.   The   legend   inspired  Swinburne’s poem   Laus Veneris   and Wagner’s  opera   Tannhäuser . She also appears in Dante  Gabriel Rossetti’s poem   Venus Victrix   as the  conquering force of love and in W. H. Auden’s  poem “Venus Will Now Say a Few Words.”  Among the attributes of Venus are a pair  of   doves   or   swans,   sometimes   drawing   her  chariot; the scallop shell and dolphins, relating  to her birth from the sea; her magic girdle or  belt, which induced love; a flaming torch that  kindled love; and the myrtle, which was ever -  green as love. The first day of April was sacred  to Venus. She, along with Fortuna Virilis, the  goddess of prosperity in the intercourse of men  and women, was worshipped by women. With  Concordia, Venus was worshipped as Verticor -  dia, the goddess who turns the hearts of women  to chastity and modesty. Other holidays in April  honored her as the goddess of prostitution.  The Uranian Venus was the title given to  Venus for her role as goddess of chastity to  distinguish that role from Venus Pandemos,  the Venus of erotic love. Tennyson, in his poem  The Princess   (1830), writes:  998   Venus  The Birth of Venus   (Botticelli)

=== 페이지 1016 ===
Introduction   999  Venus and Adonis   (after Teodoro Ghisi)

=== 페이지 1017 ===
The seal was Cupid bent above a scroll,  And o’er his head Uranian Venus hang  And raised the blinding bandage from his  eyes.  Matthew   Arnold’s   poem   “Urania”   (1869)   is  about a cold woman.  In western European art Venus appears in  many forms. Sometimes the word   Venus , with  no mythological significance, was used to mean  “the female form.” The best-known ancient rep -  resentation of the goddess is the Venus di Milo,  a Greek statue now in the Louvre in Paris. It was  found on the island of Melos in 1829. (Some -  times it is called Venus of Melos.) A common  form of the goddess is the Venus Pudica (Venus  of modesty), in which she appears with one arm  slightly flexed, one hand covering the pubic area  while the other covers the breasts. This form is  found in Botticelli’s painting   The Birth of Venus .  Other great works portraying the goddess are  Veronese’s   Venus and Mars , Titian’s   Venus and  Adonis , and Boucher’s   Venus and Vulcan .  Common art motifs portraying the goddess  are the Toilet of Venus, in which the goddess  is shown reclining, with Cupid holding a mir -  ror. The best-known version of this motif is  Velázquez’s   Venus at Her Mirror , painted about  1650.  Another common motif portraying the god -  dess is that of Sacred and Profane Love. In this,  two   kinds   of   love—erotic   and   Platonic—are  portrayed by two Venuses. The Venus Vulgaris  is the erotic or common Venus, and the Venus  Coelestis is the more spiritual one. The erotic  Venus is portrayed in rich garments, and the  spiritual Venus is portrayed naked. One example  of this type is Titian’s   Sacred and Profane Love .  The Triumph of Venus, another popular  motif in art, portrays the goddess enthroned on  her triumphal chariot drawn by doves or swans.  An unknown American artist of the early 19th  century painted   Venus Drawn by Doves   in water -  color. In the work the doves are larger than the  goddess, and the landscape is American.  See also:   aphrodite; mars; ovid; vulcan  Venusberg   (mountain of Venus)   In medieval  German legend, the mound or hill of Venus, the  pagan Roman goddess. Today the Hörselberg,  near Eisenach, is still considered to be the  Venusberg and is said to be the gathering place  for witches and spirits after the Wild Hunt.  Here the Christian knight Tannhäuser stayed.  Wagner’s opera   Tannhäuser   has elaborate music  depicting the erotic delights of the mountain.  See also:   tannhäuser; venus  Verdandi   (present)   In   Norse   mythology,  one of the three named Norns, personifying  the present; the other two are Urd and Skuld.  See also:   norns; skuld; urd  Verethraghna   In Persian mythology, war  god, noted for his 10 incarnations, which are  enumerated in the sacred Avesta. They are  (1) a “strong, beautiful wind”; (2) “a beauti -  ful bull, with yellow ears and golden horns”;  (3) “a white, beautiful horse”; (4) “a burden-  bearing camel, sharp-toothed, swift”; (5) “a  sharp-toothed heboar”; (6) “a beautiful youth  of fifteen, shining, clear-eyed, thin-heeled”; (7)  “a raven .   .   . the swiftest of birds”; (8) “a wild,  beautiful ram, with horns bent round”; (9) “a  beautiful   fighting   buck,   with   sharp   horns”;  (10) “a man, bright and beautiful,” holding “a  sword with a golden blade, inlaid with all sorts  of ornaments.”  Of the 10 incarnations the most popular  with the soldiers who worshipped Verethraghna  were those of the raven and the boar. The raven  was believed to make a man inviolable during  battle, and the boar was an ages-old symbol of  war gods.  See also:   avesta  Veritas   (truth)   In   Roman   mythology,  daughter of Saturn and mother of Virtue. She  was portrayed as a young virgin dressed in  white. Because she was so difficult to find, it  was believed that she hid herself at the bottom  of a well.  See also:   saturn  1000   Venusberg

=== 페이지 1018 ===
Veronica, St.   (true image)   (First century)   In  Christian legend, patron saint of linen-drapers  and washerwomen. Feast, 4 February.  An early Christian legend says that as Christ  was bearing his cross to Calvary, a woman,  seeing the drops of blood flow from his brow,  wiped them off with her veil or handkerchief.  When she looked at the cloth, she found the  image of Christ impressed on it. The veil was  later called the Vera Icon (true image) by Pope  Gregory I. According to the same tradition, the  name of the woman was Seraphina, but due to  a misunderstanding in the transmission of the  legend through the ages, the Vera Icon was  turned into a proper name for a woman, and  she was called St. Veronica.  That legend is the one generally circulated  during the Middle Ages, though there is another  account of the origin of the Vera Icon. It tells  of a woman’s being healed by touching Christ’s  garment. She then asked St. Luke to paint a pic -  ture of Christ on a piece of cloth. When she next  saw Christ, she realized that he had changed  and that the likeness on the cloth painted by St.  Luke was not correct. Then Christ said to her,  “Unless I come to your help, all Luke’s art is in  vain. My face is known only to Him who sent  me.” He then told her to prepare a meal for him,  which she did. After the meal he wiped his face  with a cloth, and he left his image on it. “This is  like me,” he said, “and will do great things.”  Various Christian legends credit the Vera  Icon with healing. One tells how it healed a  Roman emperor (either Vespasian or Tiberius)  who was suffering from “worms in the head”  or a “wasp’s nest in the nose.” As a result  of seeing the image of Christ, the emperor  ransacked Jerusalem and destroyed the Jews,  selling them for 30 pieces of silver each. The  anti-Semite legend was an attempt to blame  the Jews for the death of Christ and to free  the Romans from the actual guilt for the deed.  (The Romans, not the Jews, killed Jesus.)  St. Brigit, who lived in the sixth century, com -  plained of those who doubted that the face on the  Vera Icon was that of Christ. Dante mentions the  Vera Icon in   The Divine Comedy . A statue of St.  Veronica, or Seraphina, portraying her holding  the Vera Icon, is in St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome.  Numerous artists have portrayed the subject. In  Spanish bull-fighting one movement is called the  Veronica. When the cape is swung before the  face of the bull, it is said to resemble St. Veroni -  ca’s wiping of Jesus’ face with her scarf.  See also:   brigit, st.; candlemas; luke, st.  Vertumnus   (Vortumnus,   Virtumnus)   (the  turner   or   changer)   In   Roman   mythology,  Italian   god   of   fruits   who   presided   over   the  changing year. He had the power to assume  any shape or form and used this power when he  fell in love with Pomona, the Roman goddess  of fruit trees. But the girl refused his advances.  None of the various forms assumed by the god  pleased Pomona. He appeared as an old woman  and pleaded his case. Finally, he transformed St. Veronica   (Albrecht Dürer)  Vertumnus   1001

=== 페이지 1019 ===
himself into his natural shape, a handsome young  man. Pomona then accepted him and became his  wife. Milton, in   Paradise Lost   (book 9.394–95),  describes the innocence of Eve before the Fall,  writing: “Likeliest she seemed, Pomona when  she fled / Vertumnus.   .   .   .” The tale is told in  Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book 14). A bronze statue  of Vertumnus was located in the Tuscan business  quarter in Rome, where he was regarded as the  protector of business and exchange. His feast was  13 August, at which time sacrifices were made to  him in his chapel on the Aventine.  See also:   ovid; pomona  Vesper   (evening)   In Roman mythology, the  planet Venus as the evening star. The Greek  form, Hesperus, is often used in English lit -  erature.   Vesper   has come to be the name for  evening services in the Christian church in  western Europe and America.  See also:   hesperus; vulcan  Vesta   (hearth)   In   Roman   mythology,   the  goddess of the hearth, equivalent of the Greek  Hestia.  Vesta’s cult was introduced by Numa Pom -  pilius from Lavinium, where Aeneas, according  to Roman myth, had brought the Penates (gods  of the store chamber) and the sacred fire from  Troy. Roman consuls and dictators, on taking  up and laying down their office, sacrificed in the  temple of Vesta at Lavinium. It was customary  in Italy, as in Greece, for the colonies to kindle  the fire of their own Vesta at the hearth of the  mother city. The ancient round temple of Vesta,  which served as the central point of the city, was  built by Numa Pompilius. In its neighborhood  was the Atrium of Vesta, the home of the virgin  priestesses of the goddess. Here the goddess was  worshipped not in the form of a statue but under  the symbol of eternal fire. It was the chief duty  of the vestal virgins to keep the flame alive, and  every 1 March it was renewed. If it went out, the  guilty vestal was scourged by the pontifex. The  fire could be rekindled only by a burning glass  or by the friction of boring a piece of wood from  a fruit tree. A daily sacrifice of food in a clay ves -  sel was made. The daily purifications could be  made only with flowing water, which the vestal  virgins carried in pitchers on their heads from  the fountain of Egeria or from the fountain of  the Muses. During the day anyone could enter  the temple, except for that part in which the  palladium   and other sacred objects were kept. At  night men were not allowed in.  Vesta was the goddess of every sacrificial  fire, whether in the home or the temple. She  was worshipped along with Janus. His praise  opened the service, and Vesta’s closed it. Vesta’s  festival, the Vestalia, was held on 9 June. The  matrons of the city walked barefoot in proces -  sion to her temple and asked the goddess to  protect their households. Millers and bakers  also kept the feast. The asses who worked the  mills were decked out with garlands, with loaves  suspended about their necks. Vesta’s worship  continued into the Christian era. It was abol -  ished in the fourth century   c.e.   Although there  Vertumnus  1002   Vesper

=== 페이지 1020 ===
was no image of the goddess in her temples,  statues of Vesta were not uncommon in Rome.  She was portrayed clothed and veiled, with  chalice, torch, scepter, and palladium. Vergil’s  Aeneid   (book 2), Ovid’s   Metamorphoses   (book  15) and   Fasti   (book 6), and Macaulay’s poem  Battle of Lake Regillus   tell of Vesta.  See also:   aeneas; hestia; palladium; pena -  tes; troy  vestal virgins   In Roman cult, the priestesses  of the goddess Vesta. To be called as a vestal  virgin, girls had to be not younger than six and  not older than 10 years of age. They had to be  without personal blemish and of free, respect -  able families. Their parents had to be living in  Italy. The choice was made by casting lots from  nominations made by the pontifex. The virgin  accepted for the priestly office immediately left  her father’s authority and entered that of the  goddess Vesta. After the rites of entrance the  girl was taken into the Atrium of Vesta, her  future home; she was ceremonially dressed, and  her head was shorn. The time of service was 30  years—10 for learning, 10 for performing the  rites, and 10 for teaching the duties. At the end  of this time set by law the women were allowed  to go and marry. They seldom did.  The vestal virgins were under the complete  control of the pontifex. In the name of the god -  dess he exercised paternal authority over them.  He administered corporal punishment if they  neglected their duties. If they broke their vow  of chastity, they were carried out on a bier to  the   campus sceleratus   (the field of transgression)  near the Colline Gate, beaten with rods, and  buried alive. The guilty man was then scourged  to death. No man was allowed to enter their  quarters. Their service consisted of maintaining  and keeping the eternal flame in the temple of  Vesta, watching the sacred shrines, performing  sacrifices, and offering prayers for the welfare of  the nation. They took part in the feasts of Vesta,  Tellus (earth), and Bona Dea (Good Goddess).  The vestal virgins dressed entirely in white,  with a coronet-shaped headband ornamented  with ribbons suspended from it. When they  sacrificed, they covered it with a white veil, a  hood made of a piece of white woolen cloth with  a purple border, rectangular in shape. It was  folded over the head and fastened in front below  the throat. The chief part in the sacrifices was  taken by the eldest, the   virgo vestalis maxima .  Various privileges were accorded the vestal  virgins. When they went out, they were accom -  panied by a lictor (guard). At public games they  were given the place of honor. When they gave  evidence, they did not have to take the oath.  They   were   entrusted   with   wills   and   public  treaties. If anyone injured a vestal virgin, the  penalty was death. If anyone, on the way to  punishment, chanced to meet a vestal virgin in  the street, the punishment was revoked. They  had the honor of being buried in the Forum.  Shakespeare, in   Romeo and Juliet   (3.3.38),  speaks of the “pure and vestal modesty” of  Juliet’s lips, and Alexander Pope in   Eloisa to  Abelard   uses the term “the blameless vestal”  for a Christian nun. Spontini’s opera   La Vestale  (1807) deals with the vestal virgins.  See also:   bona dea; vesta  Vibhishana   (Vibhisana) (terrifying)   In Hin-  du   mythology,   brother   of   the   demon-king  Ravana, though in opposition to his brother.  He left Lanka (Sri Lanka), Ravana’s capital, and  sided with the hero Rama in his fight to regain  his throne. When Ravana died, Vibhishana was  placed on the throne of Lanka.  See also:   ravana  Victor   de   Plancy,   St.   (conqueror)   (sixth  century)   In Christian legend, hermit saint.  Feast, 26 February.  According to medieval legend as told by St.  Bernard, St. Victor was very good at exorcism.  One day St. Victor sent some workers to sow  wheat. One of them, however, stole two bushels  of seed. Instantly, the thief was possessed by  the devil, who made smoke and fire issue from  his mouth. St. Victor took pity on the man and  made the sign of the cross. The devil fled, and  Victor de Plancy, St.   1003

=== 페이지 1021 ===
the man confessed his guilt. In another legend  St. Victor turned water into wine. One day the  king of France, Chilperic, paid a visit to Victor.  The saint greeted the king and offered him some  water to drink. “O Lord,” said Victor, “bless this  water and fill the vessel which holds it with heav -  enly dew.” The water was turned into wine.  Victoria   (victory)   In   Roman   mythology,  goddess of victory, equated with the Greek  goddess Nike. In Rome she had a temple, and  festivals were held in her honor. Victoria was  portrayed with wings, crowned with laurel, and  held a branch of palm in her hand. A gold stat -  ue of the goddess, weighing some 320 pounds,  was given to the Romans by Hiero, king of  Syracuse, and placed in the temple of Jupiter  on the Capitoline Hill.  See also:   jupiter; nike  Victor   of   Marseilles,   St.   (conqueror)  (fourth century)   In Christian legend, Roman  soldier martyred under the emperor Diocletian.  Patron of millers. Invoked against lightning and  on behalf of weak or sick children. Feast, 21 July.  Victor was asked to sacrifice to the Roman  god Jupiter. He not only refused, he destroyed  the statue of the god. For his crime he was  crushed with a millstone and finally beheaded.  Three companions who had looked on his suf -  fering became converted to Christianity. At the  moment of Victor’s death angels were heard  singing, “Victory, Victory.” St. Victor of Mar -  seilles is portrayed in medieval Christian art  with a millstone or dressed in full chain armor  with shield and spurs.  See also:   jupiter  Vidar   (ruler of large territories)   In Norse  mythology, son of Odin and the giantess Grid.  Known as the silent god, he is the one who will  avenge Odin’s death by slaying the Fenrir wolf  at Ragnarok, the end of the world, and then  will rule the new world. The kenning for Vidar  is the “silent god.”  See also:   fenrir; kenning; odin; ragnarok  vila   In south Slavic folklore, a supernatural  being, wood nymph, or spirit of forests, moun -  tains, trees, clouds, or lakes, usually seen as  a beautiful young woman. In Serbian heroic  epic and ballads, the vila competes with mortal  men,   obstructing   human   progress,   exacting  penalties, demanding sacrifices, and determin -  ing fate. Although the vila can be a powerful  enemy, she also can be a helpmate and strong  ally. She appears in several Marko Kraljevich  heroic   ballads.   In   an   epic   on   the   founda -  tion sacrifice of Scutari (present-day Shkoder,  Albania), she thwarts the building of a fortress,  demanding the sacrifice of a nursing mother  before allowing the walls to be built. In some  folk genres, the vila appears with the legs of a  horse or donkey. This motif is used in Adolphe  Charles Adam’s ballet   Giselle, ou les Wilis . It also  supplied the subject for Giacomo Puccini’s first  opera,   Le Villi .  See also:   kraljevich, marko  Vilacha   In Inca ritual, a ceremony performed  after the sacrifice of a child; it consisted of  smearing the sacrificer and other celebrants  with the blood of the dead child. The child was  laid on an altar, face upward, and strangled,  garroted, or cut open with a knife. Another  name for the ceremony is Pipano.  See also:   viracocha  Vili   In   Norse   mythology,   one   of   Odin’s  brothers, along with Ve; sons of Borr and the  giantess Bestla.  See   also:   ask   and   embla;   audhumla;  bestla; odin  Vimalakirti   (stainless fame)   In Buddhism,  a man visited by Manjushri, the personifica -  tion of wisdom, and thousands of disciples of  the Buddha as well as goblins and deities, who  all convened in one small square room. A long  dialogue ensued, forming a work that has been  translated into English as   The Holy Teaching of  Vimalakirti .  See also:   manjushri  1004   Victoria

=== 페이지 1022 ===
Vimani   In Hindu mythology, the chariot of  the storm god, Indra. The charioteer is Matali.  See also:   indra  Vincent,   St.   (to conquer)   (Died 304)   In  Christian legend, deacon and Christian martyr.  Patron of bakers, roofmakers, sailors, school -  girls, and vine dressers. Patron saint of Lisbon,  Valencia, and Saragossa. Feast, 22 January.  Vincent was born in Saragossa, Spain. Dur -  ing the persecution by the emperor Diocletian  he was about 20 and a deacon in the church.  The proconsul Dacian rounded up all of the  Christians of Saragossa, promised them immu -  nity, then ordered them massacred. Vincent  was brought before the tribunal along with  Bishop   Valerius.   When   they   were   accused,  Valerius answered, but his reply was not heard  because he had a speech impediment.  “Can you not speak loudly and defy this  pagan dog?” Vincent asked the bishop. “Speak  that the world may hear, or allow me, thy ser -  vant, to speak in your stead.”  Vincent then spoke of the joys of being a  Christian. Dacian was unmoved and ordered  Vincent tortured. He was torn with iron forks  and thrown into a dungeon. Nearly dead, he  was miraculously sustained by angels. Dacian  then tried to destroy Vincent by other means.  He gave the saint every comfort, including a  bed of roses. Finally, the saint died. Dacian,  however, was still not satisfied. He had the dead  body thrown into a garbage ditch. There it was  left unburied, to be eaten by wild beasts and  birds of prey. However, God sent a raven to  watch over the body and to ward off wolves. On  being told of this, Dacian had the body wrapped  in oxhide, heavily weighted with stones, and  cast into the sea. The body was carried out to  sea but later appeared on the beach and was  buried in the sand. Not long afterward the saint  appeared to a widow and told her where he was  buried. The widow went to the spot, found the  body, and carried it to Valencia.  When the Christians in Valencia were flee -  ing the Moors in the eighth century, they took  the body of the saint with them. Their ship was  driven onto a promontory on the coast of Por -  tugal. There they buried the body of the saint,  naming the place Cape Saint Vincent, and two  ravens guarded the remains. Part of the cape is  called El Monte de las Cuervas in memory of  the event. In 1147 King Alonzo I removed the  saint’s remains to Lisbon. This time two crows  accompanied the vessel, one at the prow and  one at the stern. The crows multiplied at such  a rate in Lisbon that taxes were collected to  support them.  In medieval Christian art St. Vincent is por -  trayed as a deacon with a raven nearby. An old  missal printed in 1504 contains this proverb for  the feast day of the saint:  If on St. Vincent’s Day the sky is clear,  More wind than water will crown the year.  See also:   raven  Vincent de Paul, St.   (to conquer)   (1576–  1660)   In Christian legend, founder of Sisters  of Charity; also Congregation Missionis, or  Priests of the Mission. Patron of all charitable  societies, hospitals, lazar-houses (hospices for  those   afflicted   with   disease),   and   prisoners.  Invoked to find lost articles and for spiritual  help. Feast, 14 July.  Vincent de Paul was born at Puy, in Gascony,  France. His father was a farmer, and Vincent  tended   the   flocks.   Since   his   temper   was   so  sweet, his father sent him to a convent school.  When his studies were finished, he continued  on as a tutor and finally became a priest in 1600.  He went to Marseilles on business and when  returning was seized by African pirates and  sold into slavery in Tunis. He remained there  two years, finally converting the wife of his last  master, who in turn converted her husband to  Christianity. They all eventually escaped. On his  return he devoted much of his time to relieving  the suffering of galley slaves and founded the  hospital of La Madaleine. He also founded the  Congregation of the Sisters of Charity.  Vincent de Paul, St.   1005

=== 페이지 1023 ===
In L’Abbe Maynard’s   St. Vincent de Paul;  His Life, His Times, His Works, and His Influence  he writes that Vincent de Paul never uttered a  superfluous word and knew how to impose on  himself the most rigorous silence, overcoming  the malice of others by his silence.  St. Vincent de Paul is usually portrayed in  a clerical cassock with a newborn infant in his  arms. Sometimes a Sister of Charity is kneeling  before him, or he extends his hand to a beggar.  Vindheim   (home of the winds)   In Norse  mythology, the sky.  Vindsval   (the wind cold)   In Norse mytholo -  gy, father of winter, sometimes called Vindloni  (the wind man). In the   Prose Edda   he is described  as having an “icy breath, and is of a grim and  gloomy aspect.”  See also:   prose edda  violet   An herb with a purple flower. In Near  Eastern mythology, the violet grew from the  blood of the slain Attis, killed by a wild boar.  He was consort to the Great Mother god -  dess Cybele. In Greek mythology, the violet is  sacred to Ares and Io, and in Christian symbol -  ism, white violets are associated with the Virgin  Mary. In European folklore, the flower also is  associated with mourning, suffering, and death  and was believed to spring from the graves of  virgins. The violet is symbolic of innocence.  In   Hamle t, Ophelia says that the king, the  queen, and even Hamlet, now that he has killed  Polonius, are worthy of this symbol.  See also:   ares; attis; io; virgin mary  Viracocha   (Huracocha) (lake of fat, foam of  the water)   In Inca mythology, supreme god  and creator, lord of the generation of all life.  Viracocha made and molded the sun, endow -  ing it with a portion of his own divinity. He  placed the moon to guard and watch over the  waters and winds, over the queens of the earth  and the parturition of woman. He also created  Chasca, the planet Venus. Viracocha was invis -  ible and incorporeal, as were his messengers,  called   huaminca   (faithful soldiers) and   hayhuay -  panti   (shining ones). These, according to the  Relación anonyma de los costumbres antiquos de los  naturales del Piru   (1615), carried Viracocha’s  message to every part of the world.  The writer says that when the Indians wor -  shipped a river, spring, mountain, or grove, “it  was not that they believed that some particular  divinity was there, or that it was a living thing,  but because they believed that the great god Illa  Ticci (another name for Viracocha) had created  and placed it there and impressed upon it some  mark of distinction, beyond other objects of  its class, that it might thus be designated as an  appropriate spot whereat to worship the maker  of all things; and this is manifest from the prayers  they uttered when engaged in adoration, because  they are not addressed to that mountain, or river,  or cave, but to the great Illa Ticci Viracocha,  who, they believed, lived in the heavens, and yet  was invisibly present in that sacred object.”  Viracocha was invoked in prayers for the  dead to protect the body so that it would not  undergo corruption or be lost in the earth. He  conducted the soul to a haven of contentment.  Part of Viracocha’s cult was the sacrifice of  children in his temple. The children, brought  by their mothers, who considered it a great  honor, were either drugged or, if very young,  suckled shortly before the sacrifice. The child  was laid on an altar, face toward the sun, and  was strangled, garroted, or cut open with a  knife. With their blood Vilacha, or Pipano, was  performed, which consisted of smearing the  sacrificer and other celebrants with the blood.  Then a prayer was offered: “Oh Lord, we offer  thee this child, in order that thou wilt maintain  us in comfort, and give us victory in war, and  keep to our Lord, the Inca, his greatness and  his state, and grant him wisdom that he may  govern us righteously.”  The   Relación anonyma   says that the great  temple at Cuzco, which was afterward the site  of a Christian cathedral, was dedicated to Vira -  cocha. It contained only one altar, and on it was  1006   Vindheim

=== 페이지 1024 ===
a marble statue of the god, which is described  as “both as to the hair, complexion, features,  raiment and sandals, just as painters represent  the Apostle, Saint Bartholomew.”  Viracocha   was   known   by   several   names,  among them Usapu (he who accomplishes all  that he undertakes or he who is successful in all  things); Pachayachachi (teacher of the world);  Caylla   (the   ever-present   one);   Taripaca   (to  sit in judgment), used for the god as the final  arbiter of the actions and destinies of men;  Tukupay (he who finishes); and Zapala (the one  or the only one).  See also:   bartholomew, st.; chasca  Virgin   Mary   (first   century)   In   the   Bible,  N.T., the mother of Jesus. Her cult during the  Middle Ages was the most influential in the  development of Christian art and theology.  The Virgin Mary receives small notice in  the New Testament. The accounts of Jesus’  birth and early years do stress the Virgin, but  she is in the background in most of the narra -  tives. She appears at the foot of the cross and  receives the Holy Spirit, as do the Apostles. No  details are given of her birth or death.  One of the earliest beliefs was that Mary  gave birth to Jesus, the Son of God (Luke 1:31–  33), without losing her virginity. This doctrine  is called the Virgin Birth. By the fourth century  she was called   Theotokos   (God bearer), and her  cult began to spread throughout Christendom.  Her cult, however, was based on earlier cults  of various pagan goddesses, such as Isis, Diana,  Ceres, and Rhea, whose marks of devotion were  transferred to the Virgin. Their statues some -  times were used to portray the Virgin and Child.  Isis, the great Egyptian goddess, for example,  was often portrayed with the infant Horus.  The switch from Isis and Horus to the Virgin  and Child was therefore easy. Mary inherited  not only the statues of pagan goddesses but the  cults associated with them. She was called the  Queen of Heaven, as were the goddesses, and  was often identified with the moon. In France  during the Middle Ages the peasants of the  Perche district called the moon   Notre Dame  (Our Lady). In Portugal the people called the  moon the Mother of God, and in Sicily Christ  and the Virgin were identified with the sun and  moon. An eclipse was explained as the outcome  of a quarrel between mother and son.  Aside   from   the   ancient   influences,   the  medieval cult of the Virgin Mary was in part a  reflection of the social background of the Mid -  dle Ages themselves. Much that was feudal and  chivalrous in concept was applied to her cult.  The Court of Heaven was very much like a  medieval feudal court. Mary was the queen; the  saints were her barons. This belief is expressed  in one 14th-century tale written by a Fran -  ciscan. “We ought,” he wrote, “to imitate the  man who has incurred the king’s anger. What  does he do? He goes secretly to the queen and  promises a present, then to the earls and barons  and does the same, then to the freemen of the  household and lastly to the footmen. So when  we have offended Christ we should first go to  the Queen of Heaven and offer Mary, instead  of a present, prayers, fasting, vigils and alms;  then she, like a mother, will come between  thee and Christ, the father who wished to beat  us, and she will throw the cloak of her mercy  between the rod of punishment and us and  soften the king’s anger against us.”  The Virgin Mary not only pleaded for sin -  ners, she could even joust like a knight. Once  the knight Walter of Birback was on his way to  a tournament. He turned aside to pray to the  Virgin Mary in a chapel and became so lost in  prayer that he missed all of the jousting. When  he finally arrived at the tournament, he was met  with shouts of applause from the other knights  and learned that he had performed marvelous  feats and taken all of the prizes and prisoners.  He knew then that it was the Virgin Mary, lance  in hand, who had taken his place in the lists.  Mary also appears in a tale associated with  St. Thomas à Becket. While a young man in  Paris among a company of fellow students, he  boasted that he had a mistress “whom I call  sweetheart .   .   . for there is no woman in all  Virgin Mary   1007

=== 페이지 1025 ===
Madonna of the Yarnwinder   (Leonardo da Vinci)  1008   Virgin Mary

=== 페이지 1026 ===
France to compare with her in beauty and lov -  ing kindness.” He was referring to the Virgin  Mary, but the students laughed at him because  they knew he had no mistress. Thomas left and  asked pardon of the Virgin for his deception.  Suddenly she appeared to him and gave him  a golden casket containing a chasuble (outer  vestment) and blade to show to his companions  in token of the troth between them.  In her role as mistress the Virgin Mary  could be as jealous as any woman. One of many  tales is that of a young clerk in minor orders  who was deeply devoted to the Virgin Mary,  but one day he decided to leave his order and  marry. In the midst of the wedding feast the  Virgin Mary appeared.  “Tell me,” she said, “you that once loved  me with all your heart, why now you have cast  me aside? Tell me, tell me, where is she who is  kindlier and fairer than I? Why this miserable,  misled, deceived wretch, which you have chosen  instead of me, instead of the Queen of Heaven?  What an exchange! You have left me for a  strange woman, I that have loved you with true  love. Even now in Heaven I have dressed for you  a rich bed in my chamber, whereon to rest your  soul in great bliss. If you do not quickly change  your mind, your bed will be unmade in Heaven  and made up in the flames of Hell instead.” At  midnight the clerk climbed out of his bridal  chamber and returned to his hermitage.  Sometimes   a   person   could   threaten   the  Virgin Mary to achieve an end. Once there was  a woman who honored the Virgin by placing  flowers before her shrine daily. One day the  woman’s son was taken prisoner. Weeping, the  mother went to the shrine of the Virgin and  Child and begged the image to return her son:  “O Blessed Virgin Mary, often have I asked  thee for the deliverance of my son and thou  hast not heard me. Therefore, as my son was  taken from me, so will I take away thine, and  will put him in durance as hostage for mine.”  The woman then took the image of the  Christ Child from the bosom of the Virgin,  went home, wrapped up the image in a clean  cloth,   and   shut   it   up   carefully   in   a   chest.  The following night the Virgin appeared to  the woman’s captive son and said, “Tell your  mother to give me my Son.” The young boy  was then miraculously freed. He came to his  mother and told her that the Virgin Mary had  freed him from prison. Thankful, the woman  took the image of the Christ Child and placed  it back in the bosom of the Virgin.  From the many tales that emerged dur -  ing the Middle Ages regarding the Virgin, a  very well defined picture of her character was  presented. She loved soldiers, for example, and  was often seen on the battlefield defending  the Christians. She accompanied the Christian  Crusaders when they went to the Holy Land  to fight the Muslims. Joinville, the medieval  historian, in his Life of St. Louis, tells how a  man in Syria possessed by the devil was taken  to a shrine of the Virgin Mary to be cured. The  devil inside the man said when he arrived, “Our  Lady is not here; she is in Egypt, helping the  king of France and the other Christians who  will come to this land this day, they on foot  against the pagans all ahorse.”  It is interesting to remember that the Virgin  Mary also holds an honored place in the reli -  gion of Islam. In the Koran, the birth of Mary,  her upbringing in the temple, the Annuncia -  tion, and the birth of Jesus “under a palm tree”  (Suras 3 and 19) are narrated. The incidents do  not come from the New Testament, but from  the apocryphal writings of the early Christian  church. In the Koranic account the angel of the  Annunciation, who is understood as the Spirit  of God, says to Mary: “God has chosen you  over all women” (Sura 3:37). Islam accepts the  doctrine that Mary remained a virgin. One say -  ing, attributed to Muhammad, is: “Every child  is stung by Satan, except Mary and her Son.”  Islam, however, stops short of looking upon  her as a female substitute for the deity. Sura 5  of the Koran accuses Christians of worshipping  Mary as a “third god.” Of course, Islam rejects  the doctrine that Jesus is God’s son by saying,  “It is not for Allah to take to Himself any off -  Virgin Mary   1009

=== 페이지 1027 ===
spring” (Sura 19). Prayer to the Virgin Mary is  also forbidden in Sura 39 of the Koran.  The   Islamic   rejection   of   the   excessive  medieval Christian cult of the Virgin Mary  was echoed by the Protestant reformers, who  also rejected the medieval excess. Eventually,  Roman Catholics began to temper the exces -  sive devotion of the Mary cult. Peter Canisius,  a Jesuit theologian in the 16th century, wrote:  “We recognize that things have crept into the  cult of Mary which disfigures it, and they may  do so again.   .   .   . There are some fanatics who  have grown crazy enough to practice supersti -  tion and idolatry instead of the true cult.”  John Donne, the great English poet, wrote  in a sermon preached in 1624, “They hurt  Religion as much, that ascribe too little to the  Blessed Virgin, as they who ascribe too much.”  Donne thus stated the Anglican middle view of  the Virgin’s place in Christian theology. In one  poem,   A Thanksgiving for the Virgin’s Part in the  Scheme of Redemption , he wrote:  For that fair blessed Mother-maid,  Whose flesh redeem’d us;  That she-Cherubin,  Which unlock’d Paradise, and made  One claim for innocence, and disseiz’d sin,  Whose womb was a strange heav’n, for  there  God cloath’d Himself, and grew,  Our zealous thanks we pour. All her deeds  were  Our helps, so are her prayers; nor can she  sue  In vain, who hath such title unto you.  Will Durant, in   The Age of Faith , which is  a study of the Middle Ages, wrote concerning  the cult of the Virgin: “The worship of Mary  transformed Catholicism from a religion of ter -  ror—perhaps necessary in the Dark Ages—into  a religion of mercy and love.”  The six principal feasts of the Virgin Mary  observed in the Western Church are those of  the   Immaculate   Conception   (8   December),  sometimes simply called her Conception to  avoid the doctrine of the Immaculate Concep -  tion, which is that Mary was born without  Original Sin, her Nativity (8 September), the  Purification   (2   February),   the   Visitation   (2  July), and the Assumption (15 August), some -  times called the Dormation of the Virgin to  avoid the Roman Catholic doctrine that the  Virgin was taken to heaven body and soul.  See also:   diana; jesus; horus; isis; koran,  the; thomas à becket, st.  Virgo   (virgin)   One of the constellations and  the sixth sign of the Zodiac. The sun enters it  about 23 August. In Greek mythology Erigone,  who hanged herself after finding the murdered  body of her father, Icarius of Athens, was trans -  formed into the constellation Virgo. Virgo is  portrayed as a robed woman holding a sheaf of  grain in her left hand.  See also:   erigone; zodiac  Viriplaca   (Veraplaca)   In   Roman   mythol -  ogy, goddess who presided over the peace of  families. If a couple quarreled, they went to  the temple of Viriplaca, which was located on  the Palatine Hill, and were supposed to be  reconciled there.  Virtus   (manliness,   bravery,   virtue)   In  Roman mythology, the virtues deified. There  were two temples to Virtus erected in Rome,  one to Virtue and the other to Honor. They  were constructed so that to see the temple  of Honor it was necessary to pass through  the   temple   of   Virtue.   The   main   virtues  were Prudence, portrayed as a woman hold -  ing a ruler pointing to a globe at her feet;  Temperance, with a bridle; Justice, with an  equal balance; Fortitude, leaning against her  sword;   Honesty,   dressed   in   a   transparent  veil; Modesty, veiled; Clemency, wearing an  olive branch; Devotion, throwing incense on  an altar; Tranquillity, leaning on a column;  Health,   portrayed   with   a   serpent;   Liberty,  with a cap; and Gaiety, with a myrtle.  1010   Virgo

=== 페이지 1028 ===
Vis and Ramin   In Persian legend, two lov -  ers who were “joined as bride and groom” after  their deaths. The tale of the lovers is told in a  narrative poem,   Vis O Ramin , by the Persian  poet Fakhr Ud-Din Gurgani.  Vishakha   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist  legend,   a   wealthy   woman   disciple   of   the  Buddha. She was the first to become the leader  of the lay sisters.  Vishnu   (Visnu,   Vishnoo)   (to   pervade,   to  enter)   In Hinduism, the supreme deity or the  second god of the triad made up of Brahma,  the creator; Vishnu, the preserver; and Shiva,  the destroyer.  Vishnu, along with Shiva and Devi, is among  the most popular deities in present-day Hindu -  ism. In the ancient collection of hymns, the  Rig-Veda, he is not of the first rank, but in  later works, such as   The Mahabharata   and the  Puranas , he is the embodiment of Sattwa-guna,  the quality of mercy and goodness that displays  itself as the preserving power, the self-exis -  tent, all-pervading spirit. Some worshippers of  Vishnu called Varshnavas recognize him as the  supreme being from whom all things originate.  Vishnu’s preserving and restoring power has  been manifested in the world in various avatars  (descents), commonly called incarnations, in  which a portion or all of his divine nature is  wholly or partially in a human or animal form,  either constantly or occasionally. All of the ava -  tars were sent to correct some evil in the world.  Ten is the number most commonly accepted,  though some texts say 22, and others say they  are numberless. The most popular are Rama,  the seventh, and Krishna, the eighth.  The 10 avatars are as follows:  Matsya   (a fish). Vishnu took the form of a  fish and saved Manu, one of the progenitors  of the human race, from the Great Flood that  destroyed the world. Manu found a small fish  that asked him for protection. The fish grew Vishnu  Matsya  Vishnu   1011

=== 페이지 1029 ===
rapidly,   and   Manu   recognized   it   as   Vishnu  incarnate. When the Great Flood came, Vishnu,  as Matsya, led the ark over the waters and saved  Manu and the seeds of all living things. There  are various accounts of this myth, with Vishnu  appearing only in the later ones.  Kurma   (the tortoise, turtle). The god took  the form of Kurma to recover valuable objects  lost in the Great Flood. During the Churning of  the Ocean, when the gods and demons struggled  to obtain the Amrita, the water of life, Vishnu  also appeared as Kurma, helping the gods.  Varaha   (the boar). Vishnu became Varaha  to rid the world of the demon giant Hiranyak -  sha (golden eye). The demon had dragged the  earth to the depth of the ocean. Vishnu fought  the demon for 1,000 years before he slew him.  The epic poem   The Ramayana , however, says  that the god “Brahma became a boar and raised  up the earth.” The feat was only later ascribed  to Vishnu by his worshippers.  Nara-sinha   (man lion). Vishnu became Nara-  sinha to rid the world of the demon Hiranya-  kasipu (golden dress), who had control over the  three worlds—sky, atmosphere, and earth—for  a million years. The demon had obtained the  control from either Brahma or Shiva (accounts  vary). He had also obtained the boon of being  invulnerable   to   man   or   beast,   by   night   or  day, on sea or land, and to any solid or liquid  weapon. (This boon is sometimes ascribed to  other deities.) The demon’s son, Prahlada, how -  ever, worshipped Vishnu, which naturally upset  his father. Hiranya-kasipu then tried to kill his  son, but the boy was protected by Vishnu. In a  scornful tone Hiranya-kasipu asked his son if  Vishnu was in a pillar supporting the hall of his  palace. The boy said, “Yes.” Then the demon  said, “I will kill him.” He then struck the pillar.  Vishnu stepped out of the pillar as Nara-sinha  and tore Hiranya-kasipu to shreds.  Vamana   (the dwarf). Bali (offering), a king,  through   his   devotions   and   severe   austerities,  acquired control over the three worlds. He so  humbled all of the gods that they asked Vishnu to  protect them from Bali’s power. Vishnu then took  the form of Vamana and came to earth. He asked  Bali to be allowed to make three steps (the three  strides of Vishnu, mentioned in the Rig-Veda).  As much land as Vamana could cover in three  steps would then belong to him. Because Vamana  was a dwarf, Bali consented. Then Vishnu took  two gigantic steps, striding over the heaven and  earth, but out of respect for Bali he stopped short  of the underworld, leaving that domain for the  king. There are numerous variants of the three  steps taken by the god. In Hindu texts Bali is  sometimes called Maha-bali (great Bali).  Parashu-rama   (Rama with the ax). Parashu-  rama came to earth to deliver the Brahmans  (priests) from the control of the Kshatriyas (the  warrior caste). He is said to have cleared the  earth of the Kshatriyas 21 times. In his early  life Parashu-rama was under the protection of  the god Shiva, who taught him the use of arms  and gave him the   parashu   (ax), from which he  took his name. The first act told of him in the  Hindu epic poem   The Mahabharata   relates to  Parashu-rama  1012   Vishnu

=== 페이지 1030 ===
his mortal father, Jamadagni (fire-eating). Jama -  dagni was a king who ordered his sons to kill  their mother, Runuka, because she was defiled  by unworthy thoughts. Four of Jamadagni’s sons  would not do so, and as a result the king cursed  them, turning them into idiots. The fifth son,  Parashu-rama, struck off his mother’s head with  an ax. Jamadagni then asked Parashu-rama what  gift or request he wished. Parashu-rama begged  his father to restore his mother to life and his  brothers to sanity. The request was granted.  Rama-chandra   (Rama the charming, beauti -  ful-charming). Rama is regarded by his follow -  ers as a full incarnation of Vishnu, whereas the  other avatars are only partial ones. Rama’s tale  is told in many Hindu works, the most famous  being the   Ramayana , which is found in numer -  ous retellings.  Krishna   (the dark one). Vishnu came to save  the world from evil spirits who committed  great crimes. Among the most famous was the  demonking Kamsa.  The   Buddha   (enlightened).   The   Buddha  rejected the revealed character of the Vedas  and the immortality of the deities. His religion  became   very   popular   throughout   India   but  largely died out by about 1000   c.e.,   passing to  the rest of Asia, until it was revived in modern  times. The Brahmans claimed that the Buddha  was an incarnation of Vishnu, who had come  either to defeat the   asuras   (who had gained  great power by worshipping the Vedas) by tell -  ing them the Vedas were not divine, or to draw  people away from the worship of the Vedas  and thus ensure the decline of the world cycle  according to cosmic law.  Kalki   (impure, sinful). This avatar has not  yet occurred. Vishnu is to appear at the end of  the world cycle, seated on a white horse, with  drawn sword blazing like a comet, for the final  destruction of the wicked, the renewal of cre -  ation, and the restoration of purity.  Among Vishnu’s many titles are Achyuta  (unfallen); Ananta (the endless); Ananta-sayana  (who sleeps on the waters); Janarddana (whom  men worship); Kesava (the hairy, the radiant);  Kiritin (wearing a tiara): Lakshmipati (lord of  Lakshmi), in reference to his wife, Lakshmi,  in his incarnation as Narayana; Madhusudana  (destroyer   of   Madhu);   Mukunda   (deliverer);  Murari (the foe of Mura); Nara (the man);  Narayana (who moves in the waters); Pancha -  yudha (armed with five weapons); Padmanabha  (lotus navel); Pitam-bara (clothed in yellow  garments); Purusha (the man, the spirit); Puru -  shottama (the highest of men, the supreme  spirit); Sarngin (carrying the bow Sarnga); Vai -  kuntha-natha (lord of Vaikuntha), which is his  paradise; and Yajneswara (lord of sacrifice).  See also:   asuras; avatars; brahma; bud -  dha; churning of the ocean; kalki; krishna;  mahabharata, the ; manu;   puranas ; rama;  rigveda; shiva; vedas  Vishvakarman   (all-maker)   In Hindu mythol -  ogy, a god said to have created man from speech.  In the Rig-Veda, the sacred collection of ancient  hymns to the gods, Vishvakarman is called the  “all-seeing god, who has on every side eyes, faces,  arms, and feet, who when producing the heav -  ens and earth, blows them forth with his arms  and wings; the father, generator, disposer, who  knows all worlds, gives the gods their names, and  is beyond the comprehension of mortals.” The  term was sometimes used for a Prajapati, a pro -  genitor of the human race, and later for Twashtri,  the architect and artisan of the gods.  See also:   prajapati; twashtri  Vishvapani   In Mahayana Buddhism, one of  the five Dhyani-Bodhisattvas, the wielder of  the double thunderbolt, which is his symbol.  See also:   dhyani-bodhisattvas  Viswamitra   (friend   of   all)   In   Hindu  mythology, a Prajapati, born a member of the  warrior class. Through his intense austerities  Viswamitra became a Brahman. He appears  in both the epics   The Mahabharata   and   The  Ramayana , where he is the adviser of Rama’s  father and Rama’s own guru. Both epics tell of  Viswamitra’s love for the nymph Menaka. His  Viswamitra   1013

=== 페이지 1031 ===
austerities so alarmed the gods that they sent  Menaka to seduce him. She succeeded, and the  result was a child, Shakuntala.  See   also:   mahabharata, the ; prajapati;  ramayana, the ; rama; shakuntala  Vitalis, St.   (vital)   (first century)   In Christian  legend, martyr and patron saint of Ravenna,  Italy. Feast, 22 September.  St. Vitalis was one of the converts of St. Peter.  He was the father of Sts. Gervasius and Prota -  sius. He served in the army of Nero and suffered  martyrdom for burying the body of a Christian  who had been martyred. After being tortured by  a club set with spikes, Vitalis was buried alive.  The church at Ravenna that was dedicated to  St. Vitalis during the reign of Emperor Justinian  is considered one of the best examples of Byz -  antine architecture in Italy. The building was  erected over the spot where the saint was sup -  posedly buried alive. The Greek mosaics in the  vault of the church portray Christ seated on the  globe of the universe, and with his right hand St.  Vitalis offers Christ his crown of martyrdom.  See also:   peter, st.  Vitus,   St.   (Died 303)   In Christian legend,  patron saint of dogs, domestic animals, young  people, dancers, coppersmiths, actors, and mum -  mers. Invoked against epilepsy, lightning, St.  Vitus’ dance, sleeplessness, and snakebite. Patron  of Prague, Saxony, and Sicily. Feast, 15 June.  Vitus was the son of noble Sicilian parents  who were pagans. The boy, however, was a  Christian, having been taught the faith by his  nurse Cresentia and his foster father, Modestus.  When Vitus’ real father heard his son, now 12,  was a Christian, he had him locked in a room  or dungeon. When he looked through the key -  hole to see what was happening, he saw his son  dancing with seven angels. The sight so dazzled  him that the man went blind. The boy cured his  father, but his father still was against him. So  Vitus, his nurse, and Modestus left by boat for  Italy. An angel guided the boat safely to Jucania,  where they remained for some time preaching  to the people and being fed by an eagle sent by  God. They then went to Rome, where St. Vitus  cured the emperor Diocletian of his evil spirit,  but the emperor still wanted Vitus to sacrifice  to the pagan gods. Vitus refused and was cast  into a caldron filled with molten lead, pitch, and  resin. He came out safely. He was then exposed  to a lion, but the animal did not touch him.  Then, during the Diocletian persecution (303),  Modestus, Crescentia, and Vitus were racked on  an iron horse until their limbs were dislocated.  At this point a great storm arose that destroyed  their persecutors as well as their temples. An  angel then came down from heaven and set the  three free and brought them to Lucania, where  they died in peace.  Vitus is often shown with a cock beside him,  as in the statue to the saint in the cathedral  of Prague. The cock symbol was used for an  earlier pagan god and was given to the saint in  popular lore. Offering a cock to the saint was  practiced in Prague well into the 18th century.  See also:   cock  Vitzilopuchtl   (sorcerer)   In Aztec mythol -  ogy,   a   war   god   who   could   change   himself  into any shape. According to various Spanish  accounts, Vitzilopuchtl was originally a sor -  cerer of the black arts who was noted for his  strength in battle. When he died, he was dei -  fied and slaves were sacrificed to him. A drag -  onlike creature was his symbol.  Viviane   (living,   alive?)   In Arthurian legend,  the enchantress who was loved by Merlin but  later betrayed him. Viviane, called Nimuë in  Malory’s   Morte d’Arthur , was a beautiful woman  whom Merlin, in his old age, fell madly in love  with. Viviane asked Merlin to teach her all of his  magic art. After many years, when she had learned  all of his magic and had grown tired of him, she  asked him to show her how a person could be  imprisoned by enchantment without wall, towers,  or chains. After Merlin had complied she lulled  him into a deep sleep under a whitethorn laded  with flowers. While he slept, she made a ring  1014   Vitalis, St.

=== 페이지 1032 ===
around the bush with her wimple and performed  the magic Merlin had taught her. When Merlin  awoke he found himself a prisoner. He never freed  himself. T ennyson’s “Vivien,” part of the   Idylls of  the King , and Ernest Chausson’s symphonic poem  Vivian   treat the legend of Merlin and Viviane.  Viviane is identified as the Lady of the Lake in  many Arthurian legends.  See also:   lady of the lake; merlin  Vladimir   of   Kiev,   St.   (c.   957–1015)   In  Christian legend, Apostle of Russia; respon -  sible for that country’s conversion to Orthodox  Christianity. Feast, 15 July.  Vladimir was the great prince of Kiev, the  “God-protected   Mother   of   Russian   Cities,”  during the last quarter of the 10th century.  He was brought up a pagan, and, according to  the   Chronicle of Nestor , his “desire for women  was too much for him.” He had five wives  and numerous female slaves. His conversion  to Christianity is shrouded in mystery. He was  faced with the need to choose a religion for his  people and vascilated between Islam, Judaism,  the Christianity of the West, and the Christian -  ity of the East, or Byzantium. He sent ambassa -  dors to witness the ceremonies of each religion,  and they came back with the report that the  Byzantine form of worship was the most beauti -  ful and therefore must be for the true God. St.  Vladimir therefore accepted the Byzantine form  of Christianity. After his conversion he forced  Orthodox Christianity on his subjects, imposing  severe penalties on those who refused baptism.  “The   Devil   was   overcome   by   fools   and  madmen,” says the   Chronicle of Nestor , stressing  the fact that St. Vladimir received grace from  God to overcome his evil earlier life. He put  away his former wives and mistresses and mar -  ried Anne, sister of the Greek emperor Basil II,  which helped him politically. His bouts with  his past life, however, continued. “When he  had in a moment of passion fallen into sin he  at once sought to make up for it by penitence  and almsgiving,” the   Chronicle of Nestor   says in  support of the saint’s varying moods.  Vlad Tepes   The prince who is best known  under his nickname Dracula. He lived in the  15th century in Walachia, south of Transylvania,  and is reputed to have executed his enemies by  driving a sharpened stake through their bodies.  Vlad was the historical basis for the fictional  vampire in Bram Stoker’s 1897 novel   Dracula .  See also:   dracula; vampire  vlkodlak   (vukodlak,   vrkolak,   volkun)   In  Slavic folklore, a wolfman or werewolf. If a  child is born feet first and with teeth, it will  become   a   vlkodlak ,   but   one   might   also   be  transformed into a   vlkodlak   through witch -  craft, in which case only the person who cast  the spell could remove it. A   vlkodlak   also can  appear as a hen, horse, cow, dog, or cat. The  only remedy against the   vlkodlak   is the   kresnik ,  a good spirit who will battle it.  Viviane   (Louis Rhead)  vlkodlak   1015

=== 페이지 1033 ===
vodyanik   (water grandfather)   In Slavic folk -  lore, water spirit, the male counterpart of the  female water spirit,   rusalka . Assuming many  forms,   vodyanik   can appear as an old man with  a fat belly, wearing a cap of reeds and a belt  of rushes. When he appears in a village, he  assumes he can be spotted by the water oozing  from the left side of his coat. Often he stays in  the water, where he makes his home, appearing  at night to comb his green hair. His nature var -  ies and is either good or bad, depending on his  mood at the time. If in a good mood he helps  fishermen, but in a bad frame of mind he causes  floods, overturns boats, and drowns men. The  mood often depends on whether the fishermen  return his children to the water after catching  them in their nets.  Variants of   vodyanik   in Slavic folklore are  Deduska Vodyancy (water grandfather) among  the Russians; Vodeni Moz (water man) among  the Slovenians; Topielec (drowner) among the  Poles; and Vodnik (water goblin) among the  Czechs.   Dvorák’s   symphonic   poem   Vodník,  often called   The Water Goblin   or   The Water  Sprite   in English, is based on a literary folk  ballad by Karel Jaromir Erben in his collection  Kytice .  See also:   rusalka  Volkh   (Volga) (sorcerer)   In Russian folklore,  Hero of superhuman strength who appears in  the   bylini , the epic songs, as well as in folktales.  Volkh is a   bogatyr , an epic hero, who could turn  himself into a falcon, a gray wolf, a white bull  with golden horns, or a small ant. At age one  and a half he spoke his first words, telling his  mother not to swaddle him but to give him a  suit of armor and a helmet of gold. By 15 he  had assembled an army of 7,000. He is said  to have defeated the infidels as they sought to  destroy the churches of Kiev. He then went to  India to take control of that country.  See also:   bylina  Volos   (Veles, Vyelyes) (ox?)   In Slavic mythol -  ogy, god of beasts and flocks, worshipped in  some sections of Russia into the 19th century.  He may have been one aspect of Pyerun.  The demonic aspects of Volos were applied  to demons, but his beneficent aspects were  attached to St. Blaise (third century), patron  saint of physicians, wax chandlers, and wool  combers. In Russian Blaise is called Vlas or  Vlassy. On his feast day a prayer is addressed to  him that resembles an ancient prayer to Volos:  “Saint Vlas, give us good luck, so that our heif -  ers shall be sleek and our oxen fat.” The rite of  “curling Volos’s hair” was still practiced in the  19th century, when peasants tied the last sheaf  of grain into a knot at harvest time.  The Russian artist Tcheko Potocka por -  trayed a sacrifice to Volos that shows peasants  slaughtering a horse at the feet of a massive  statue of the god. In Lithuania, Volos is called  Ganyklos.  See also:   blaise, st.; pyerun  Volsunga   Saga   Scandinavian   prose   epic,  believed   to   have   been   written   in   the   12th  century   c.e.,   telling of the hero Sigurd, who  appears in Germanic myth as Siegfried.  Volsung, a lineal descendant of the god  Odin, built his home around the trunk of the  Branstock oak, whose branches overshadowed  all that surrounded it. When Signy, Volsung’s  only daughter, was married against her will to  Siggeir, king of the Goths, a one-eyed stranger  (Odin in disguise) appeared among the wed -  ding guests. He thrust a sword, Balmung, deep  into the oak. Before leaving he said that the  weapon should belong to the man who pulled  it out. He then promised that Balmung would  assure its owner of victory in every fight.  Although conscious that Odin had been  among them, Volsung courteously invited the  bridegroom, Siggeir, to try his luck first. Siggeir  did not succeed, nor did Volsung, nor any of his  10 sons—except for Sigmund, the youngest.  Siggeir offered to purchase the sword, but  Sigmund refused. Angry at his refusal, Siggeir  left the next day. Although Signy warned her  kinsmen that her husband, Siggeir, was plotting  1016   vodyanik

=== 페이지 1034 ===
revenge, the Volsungs accepted Siggeir’s invita -  tion to visit them.  When Volsung and his 10 sons arrived in  Gothland, Signy again warned them. The Vol -  sungs were drawn into an ambush and bound fast  to a fallen tree in the forest. Each night a wild  beast (wolf) devoured one of the boys. Closely  watched by her cruel husband, Signy could not  aid her family. Only Sigmund, the youngest, was  left alive. Signy told a slave to cover Sigmund’s  face with honey. A wild beast, attracted by the  sweet odor, licked Sigmund’s face. This enabled  Sigmund to catch the animal’s tongue between  his teeth and struggle free.  When Siggeir went to investigate the next  day, his messenger reported that no prisoners  were left bound to the tree and that only a heap  of bones was visible. Convinced that all of his  enemies were dead, Siggeir ceased to watch  Signy. She then stole out into the forest to bury  the remains of her father and brothers, and there  she discovered Sigmund. They both promised  to seek revenge. Later Signy sent her two sons  to Sigmund to be trained as avengers, but both  proved deficient in courage. Signy came to the  conclusion that only a pureblood Volsung would  prove capable of the task. She disguised herself  as a gypsy to visit Sigmund’s hut and had a child  by him, Sinfiotli. When Sinfiotli grew up, Signy  sent him to Sigmund, who did not know it was  his sister with whom he had slept.  With Sinfiotli as his helper Sigmund went to  the cellar of the palace to capture Siggeir. But  warned by two of his young children that mur -  derers were hiding behind the casks, Siggeir had  Sigmund and Sinfiotli seized and cast into sepa -  rate cells. He ordered that they should be starved  to death. But before the prison was closed, Signy  cast into it a bundle of straw in which she had  concealed Balmung, the magic sword.  With the sword the two freed themselves  and set Siggeir’s palace afire. Siggeir and his  men were killed. Sigmund went to save Signy,  who merely stepped out of the palace long  enough to tell Sigmund that Sinfiotli was his  son and then plunged back into the flames.  Sigmund returned home. In his old age he  was killed in battle. Before he died, however,  he had fathered a son, Sigurd, upon his young  wife, Hjordis. In one version the mother died  in childbirth, and Sigurd was raised by Mimer,  a magician as well as a blacksmith. In a vari -  ant version of the saga a Viking discovered the  young   wife   mourning   over   Sigmund’s   dead  body and carried her off. She consented to  become the Viking’s wife if he would promise  to be a good foster father to Sigmund’s child. In  his home Sigurd was educated by the wisest of  men, Regin, who taught the hero all he needed  to know. He advised Sigurd on the choice of a  wonderful steed, Grane or Greyfell.  Seeing that the lad was ready for adventure,  Regin told him of the gods Odin, Hoenir, and  Loki, and how they had killed Otter and had to  pay the price for the deed with gold; this gold was  now guarded by Fafnir, who had transformed  himself into a dragon. Sigurd, with the fragments  of his father’s sword, forged a new blade and went  out to kill Fafnir. A one-eyed ferryman (Odin in  disguise) conveyed him to where the dragon was  and explained how best to kill the monster.  After   Sigurd   killed   Fafnir,   Regin   joined  him. Regin asked Sigurd to cut out the dragon’s  heart and roast it for him. Sigurd did as he was  told, but while he was cooking the heart, he  burned his finger. As he licked the burn, the  taste of Fafnir’s heart blood gave Sigurd the  power to understand the language of birds.  One bird nearby told him that Regin was com -  ing up behind to kill him with his own sword.  Enraged, Sigurd slew Regin. After piling up  most of the treasure in a cave, where it con -  tinued to be guarded by the dead body of the  dragon, Sigurd rode away, taking with him his  sword, a magic helmet, and the ring.  Guided by the birds, he came to a place in the  forest that was surrounded by flames. He rode  through them and came upon Brynhild, asleep.  The two fell in love. Brynhild told Sigurd she  was a daughter of the god Odin. She had been  placed there as punishment for saving a man  whom Odin had doomed to death. As a result  Volsunga Saga   1017

=== 페이지 1035 ===
she was condemned to marry any mortal who  could claim her. Sigurd gave Brynhild the ring.  Shortly after, he left and went to Burgundy,  the land of the Nibelungs. Their ruler, Giuki,  had a beautiful daughter, Gudrun, who fell in  love with Sigurd and gave him a love potion,  which made him forget Brynhild and fall in  love with Gudrun. Sigurd asked for her hand in  marriage. The marriage was agreed to if Sigurd  would help Gunnar, a brother of Gudrun, to  gain Brynhild as his wife.  Taking on Gunnar’s form by use of the  magic helmet, the Tarnkappe in the   Nibelun -  genlied , Sigurd went through the flames again,  fought with Brynhild, and took back the ring.  Not knowing it was Sigurd, she was forced to  marry her “hero” and thus was made Gunnar’s  bride. When she reached the court, Sigurd did  not know her because of the love potion. Bryn -  hild became very bitter.  Brynhild would not have sexual intercourse  with her husband, and Gunnar again sought  Sigurd for help. The hero, once again using his  magic helmet, fought with Brynhild one night  and took her girdle and ring, which he carried off  and gave to his wife Gudrun. Brynhild believed  it was Gunnar who had conquered her.  However, Brynhild’s resentment still smol -  dered. When Gudrun and Brynhild had an argu -  ment over who was to be first at bathing in the  river, Gudrun showed Brynhild the magic ring  and girdle, saying her Sigurd had wooed and  won Gunnar’s bride. Hogni, a kinsman of the  Nibelungs, took Brynhild’s side and told her he  would help her avenge the insult. In one version  Hogni killed Sigurd in bed by discovering his  one vulnerable spot. In a variation, Sigurd was  killed by Hogni while hunting in the forest.  By order of Gudrun, Sigurd’s corpse was  placed on a pyre that consumed his weapons  and horse. Just as the flames were rising, Bryn -  hild plunged into them and also died. A variant  version records that she stabbed herself and  asked to be burned beside Sigurd, his naked  sword lying between them and the magic ring  on her finger.  Atli of the Huns, Brynhild’s brother, sought  revenge   for   his   sister’s   death.   However,   he  accepted Gudrun as his wife. Gudrun agreed  to the marriage because she was given a magic  potion. When it wore off, however, she hated her  husband. The end was a battle of Gunnar’s and  Hogni’s men against Atli’s forces. When Gunnar  and Hogni were caught by Atli, he attempted  to force them to tell him the hiding place of the  treasure. Gunnar said he would not reveal it as  long as Hogni lived because he had given Hogni  his word. Atli then had Hogni’s heart brought to  Gunnar to show him he was dead. Gunnar still  refused to tell and was killed. Atli then ordered a  festival, but he was killed by Gudrun, who either  stabbed him to death with Sigurd’s sword or set  fire to the palace and perished with the Huns.  A third variation recounts that Gudrun was cast  adrift and landed in Denmark, where she mar -  ried the king and bore him three sons. These  youths, in an attempt to avenge the death of their  stepsister Swanhild, were stoned to death. Gud -  run finally committed suicide by casting herself  into the flames of a huge funeral pyre.  The   Volsunga Saga   was translated into Eng -  lish in the 19th century by the poet William  Morris. He also tells the story in his long nar -  rative poem   Sigurd the Volsung and the Fall of the  Niblungs , an epic in four books.  See also:   balmung; brynhild; fafnir; gud -  run; loki;   nibelungenlied ; odin; regin; sieg -  fried; sigmund; signy;   ring des nibelungen,  der  Volturnus   In Roman mythology, a god of  the Tiber River. He was identified in later  Roman   belief   with   Tiberinus,   a   legendary  king for whom the Tiber was named after he  drowned there. His feast was 27 August.  See also:   tiberinus  Volva   (carrier   of   a   magic   staff)   In   Norse  mythology, the sibyl who recited the   Voluspa ,  the first poem of the   Poetic Edda , which narrates  the creation and destruction of the world.  See also:   poetic edda ; sibyls  1018   Volturnus

=== 페이지 1036 ===
Vortigern   In medieval British mythology, a  monk who killed King Constans and usurped  his throne. He built a tower, to which he  fled when his land was invaded by Ambrosius  Aurelius, and he was burned to death.  See also:   brut; constans; merlin  Votan   (Voton)   (the   breast,   the   heart?)   In  Mayan mythology, a culture hero and god. His  consort was Ixchel. At some time in the past  Votan had come from Valum Votan (the land  of Votan) in the far east. He was sent by God  to divide out and assign to the different races  their portion of the earth and to give each its  own language.  His message was brought to the Tzentals  (Tzendals), a Mayan tribe living in Mexico.  According to Daniel G. Brinton in   American  Hero-Myths   (1882), “Previous to his arrival they  were ignorant, barbarous, and without fixed  habitations. He collected them into villages,  taught them how to cultivate the maize and  cotton, and invented the hieroglyphic signs,  which they learned to carve on the walls of  their temples. It was even said that he wrote his  own history in them.”  Votan   also   instituted   civil   laws   and  reformed religious worship, earning the title  “master of the sacred drum” because of its  use in ritual dances. He also invented the  calendar and founded the cities of Palenque,  Nachan,   and   Huehuetlán.   In   Heuhuetlán  he built an underground temple “by merely  blowing with his breath. In this gloomy man -  sion he deposited his treasures and appointed  a priestess to guard it, for whose assistance he  created the tapirs.”  When it was time for him to depart, after  he had civilized the Indians, he “penetrated  through   a   cave   into   the   underground,   and  found his way to the root of heaven.”  See also:   ixchel  Vourukasha   In Persian mythology, sea god  or the sea. Also the name of the heavenly lake  in which grows the tree of life.  Vretil   In medieval Jewish folklore, angel iden -  tified with the “man clothed with linen” carrying  “a writer’s inkhorn by his side,” described by the  prophet Ezekiel (9:2). Vretil wears linen since  it is ritually clean, whereas wool, coming from  an animal, is not. The “man clothed with linen”  in Ezekiel (9:4) is to go “through the midst of  Jerusalem and set a mark upon the foreheads of  the men that sigh and that cry for all the abomi -  nations that be done in the midst thereof.”  See also:   ezekiel  Vritra   (restrainer)   In Hindu mythology, the  demon   of   drought,   constantly   at   war   with  Indra, the storm god. Vritra is sometimes called  Vritrasura or Ahi, though in some texts Ahi is a  distinct personality.  See also:   indra  Vulcan   (Vulcanus,   Volcanus)   (volcano)   In  Roman mythology, the ancient Italian fire god,  god of forging and smelting, equivalent of the  Greek god Hephaestus.  Vulcan   ( Hephaestus )  Vulcan   1019

=== 페이지 1037 ===
As smith (or god) of the forge, Vulcan was  called Mulciber (the softener or smelter). As a  beneficent god of nature who ripens the fruit  with his warmth, he was the husband of Maia  (or Maiesta), the Italian goddess of spring. Both  Vulcan and Hephaestus had sacrifices offered to  them by the   flamen Volcanalis   priests after Vulcan  became identified with the Greek fire god Hep -  haestus. When the Roman Venus was identified  with the Greek goddess Aphrodite, Vulcan was  regarded   as   her   husband.   Chaucer,   in   “The  Knight’s Tale,” writes, “Venus .   .   . spouse to Vul -  canus.” Vulcan’s best-known shrine in Rome was  the Volcanal, a level space raised above the sur -  face of the Comitium and serving as the hearth  of the spot where the citizens’ assemblies were  held. Vulcan’s chief festival was the Vulcanalia,  observed 23 August, when certain fish were  thrown into the fire on the hearth and races were  held in the Circus Flaminius. Sacrifices were  offered to Vulcan as god of metalworking on 23  May, the day appointed for a cleansing of the  trumpets used in worship. As lord of fire, Vul -  can was also god of conflagrations. His temple  in Rome was situated in the Campus Martius.  Juturna and Stata Mater, goddesses who caused  fires to be quenched, were worshipped along  with him at the festival of Vulcanalia.  Shakespeare, in   Hamlet , has Hamlet speak  to Horatio, making reference to Vulcan:  .   .   . if his occulted guilt  Do not itself unkennel in one speech,  It is a damned ghost that we have seen,  And my imaginations are as foul  As Vulcan’s smithy. (3.2.85–89)  Vulcan at His Forge with Mars and Venus   (after Parmigianino)  1020   Vulcan

=== 페이지 1038 ===
The references are to Hamlet’s own imagina -  tion as well as to his plot to discover the guilt  of Claudius.  There is a 17th-century copy of Breughel  the Elder’s   Venus at the Forge of Vulcan   as well as  a brilliant   Forge of Vulcan   by Velázquez, painted  in 1630.  In English the word   volcano   comes from  Vulcan, as does the verb   vulcanize , the chemical  process for treating crude rubber.  See also:   aphrodite; chaucer; hephaes -  tus; maia; venus  vulture   A large bird that feeds on dead ani -  mals. The ancient Egyptian cult of the vulture  dates from predynastic times, when the pha -  raoh was called Nekhebet (lord of the city of  the vulture), referring to the vulture goddess  Nekhebet. The bird was also associated with  Mut   and   Neith.   Vultures   were   believed   to  follow men into battle, hover over those who  would die, and later eat their flesh. Thus the  bird was sacred to the Greek war god Ares and  his Roman counterpart, Mars. All vultures were  believed to be female and to be impregnated by  turning their backs to the south or southwest  wind while flying. They were believed to bring  forth their young in three years.  See also:   ares; mars; mut; neith; nekhebet;  pharaoh  vulture   1021

=== 페이지 1039 ===
6  1022  W  Wabosso   (white hare or maker of white)   In  North   American   mythology   (Algonquian),  brother   of   Nanabozho,   culture   hero   and  trickster.  See also:   trickster  Wade   In   northern   mythology,   giant   father  of Wayland the Smith, who appears in Anglo-  Saxon and Danish tales.  See   also:   frithjof’s saga ; wayland the  smith  Wahan   Tanka   (creator,   great   spirit)   In  North   American   Indian   mythology   (Oglala  Lakota), Great Spirit, who appears as Wanbli  Galeshka,   the   spotted   eagle.   The   sun,   sky,  earth, and rock are all Wahan Tanka.  Waki-Ikazuchi   In Japanese mythology, one  of the Ikazuchi, the eight gods of thunder.  See also:   ikazuchi  Wakinyan-Tanka   In North American Indian  mythology (Oglala Lakota), great thunderbird  of the west, protector of the sacred pipe.  See also:   thunderbird  Wakonda   In North American Indian myth-  ology (Omaha), creator god, in whose mind  all things existed until they found a place for  bodily existence.  Walangada   (belonging   to   the   sky)   In  Australian mythology, a primal being of uniden -  tified form who ascended to the sky to become  the Milky Way.  Walled Up Wife, The   The legend and  ballad of the walled up wife is found particu -  larly in the Balkans but also in some portions  of India. The story concerns a group of men  who are building either a castle, a monastery,  or, most often, a bridge. For some reason what  they build during the day is undone during the  night. One of the builders has a revelation in a  dream that the only way to break the spell is to  sacrifice the first woman, even a wife or sister,  who appears at the building site the following  day. The wife of the chief architect and builder  comes to visit her husband and is immured. In  some versions, she thinks the process is but a  game until she comes to the realization that she  is about to be sacrificed by her own husband.  She begs for an opening so that she can nurse  her baby, and this becomes a place where infer -  tile women or those who are suffering from a  lack of lactation come in hope of finding a cure.  In some versions there is a milky spring or small  brook that marks the location of the sacrifice.  Walpurga, St.   (Walpurgis, Walburga, Bugga)  (Died   779)   In   Christian   legend,   abbess   of  Heidenheim. Invoked against coughs, rabies,

=== 페이지 1040 ===
Introduction   1023  Walpurgisnacht   (Fritz Bergen)

=== 페이지 1041 ===
frenzy, and plague and for a good harvest. One  of her feast days, 1 May, is preceded by the  Walpurgisnacht   in   Germany,   which,   accord -  ing to folklore and legend, is the night when  witches gather together on the Brocken—also  called   Blocksberg,   the   highest   peak   of   the  Harz Mountains—and revel and carouse with  demons.  The name   Walpurgisnacht   derives from the  English saint Walpurga, who was the niece of  St. Boniface. She spent some 27 years of her life  at the monastery in Winburn, in Dorset, Eng -  land, before she went on a missionary journey  with 10 other nuns to Germany. She was made  the first abbess of a Benedictine nunnery at  Heidenheim, between Munich and Nuremberg.  During her lifetime she was noted for her skill  in medicine, and her tomb was credited with  healing powers. Since the earlier pagan festival  marked the beginning of spring, the saint’s feast  became confused with the pagan one, and the  witches’ sabbath was named after the nun.  The   Walpurgisnacht   appealed   particularly  to 19th-century German artists. Goethe twice  treated the theme: once in a poem he called  a “dramatic-ballad,”   Die erste Walpurgisnacht  (The   First   Walpurgis   Night)   and   in   Faust  (parts 1 and 2). Mendelssohn set Goethe’s text  for soloists, chorus, and orchestra as   Die erste  Walpurgisnacht,   opus 60, in 1832.  Thomas Mann’s novel   The Magic Moun -  tain   has a chapter entitled “Walpurgis-Night,”  dealing with the Shrovetide festival. Mann, in  recalling the name that was used by Goethe,  wished to stress the similarity of his theme with  that of Goethe’s   Faust.  In art St. Walpurga is usually portrayed  as a royal abbess with a small flask of oil on a  book. Sometimes she is shown with three ears  of corn in her hand (bringing in the symbolism  of the pagan festival). Her main festival is now  observed on 25 February.  See also:   boniface, st.  Walwalag Sisters   In Australian mythology,  two sisters who were eaten and regurgitated by  the Rainbow Snake. Their story is reenacted in  various fertility rites of the tribes.  See also:   rainbow snake  Wambeen   In Australian mythology, an evil  being who sends lightning and fire. When he  comes down to earth, he kills travelers. He is  recognized by an evil odor.  Wandering   Jew   In   medieval   anti-Semitic  legend, a Jew who was said to have cursed Jesus  on his way to be crucified and was punished by  having to wait for Christ’s Second Coming. The  earliest mention of the legend is in the 13th-  century chronicles of the Abbey of St. Albans.  According   to   that   account,   when   Jesus   was  on his way out of Pilate’s hall, a porter, called  Cartaphilus, “impiously struck him on the back  with his hand and said in mockery, ‘Go quicker,  Jesus, go quicker; why do you loiter?’ And Jesus,  looking back on him with severe countenance,  said to him, ‘I am going, and you will wait till  I return.’ ” The chronicle goes on to say that  Cartaphilus was 30 at the time. He later became  a Christian and, according to the account, is still  alive, waiting for the Second Coming of Christ.  Though the name Cartaphilus is given in  the earliest account, other names have been  given to the Wandering Jew. In Latin versions  he is called Johannes Buttadeus (John the God  Smiter). He was seen in Antwerp in the 13th  century, again in the 15th and a third time in  the 16th. His last appearance was in Brussels in  1774. In German versions he is called Ahasu -  erus, a cobbler, and in other versions he is part  of the Wild Hunt. The medieval legend inspired  Goethe’s   Der ewige Jude,   Edgar Quinet’s prose  drama   Ahasvérus,   George Groly’s   Salathiel,   and  Eugene Sue’s long novel   The Wandering Jew.  See also:   ahasuerus  Wanga   In Haitian voodoo, an evil spell that  causes death in seven days.  Wang   Jung   (305–234   b.c.e. )   In   Chinese  legend, one of the seven Chu-lin Ch’i-Hsien  1024   Walwalag Sisters

=== 페이지 1042 ===
(Seven Immortals). He was once a court min -  ister but left his position for a life of pleasure.  Once he sold a plum tree cut from his estate  only after removing the plums so it could not  be grown elsewhere. In Japanese legend he is  called Oju.  See also:   chu-lin ch’i-hsien  Wang Mu   (Mother Wang, Queen Mother)  In Chinese mythology, the spirit of metal, who  was born with a tiger’s teeth. She is one of the  five spirits of natural forces, the Wu Lao.  See also:   wu lao  Washington, George   In American history  and   folklore,   first   president   of   the   United  States,   father   of   his   country.   The   best-  known Washington legend was invented by  Parson Mason Weems in   The Life of George  Washington.   .   .   .   According   to   Weems,   when  Washington was about six years old his father  gave him a hatchet. “One day, in the garden, he  unluckily tried the edge of his hatchet on the  body of a beautiful English cherry tree, which  he barked terribly.” When his father discovered  that the tree had been chopped down, he asked  who might be responsible. “George,” said his  father, “do you know who killed that beauti -  ful little cherry tree yonder in the garden?” “I  can’t tell a lie, Pa; you know I can’t. I did cut  it with my hatchet.” The father then called  George into his loving arms. This moral tale,  which turns George into an American saint,  was painted by Grant Wood.  Nathaniel Hawthorne, the great American  novelist, commented that George Washing -  ton “had no nakedness but was born with his  clothes on and his hair powdered.” Though  there is no history in the cherry tree tale, there  is history in the legend of the crossing of the  Washington at Valley Forge   (Frederick Heppenheimer)  Washington, George   1025

=== 페이지 1043 ===
Delaware in December 1776, as well as in the  Valley Forge story. In each case greater drama  has   been   added   by   folklore.   In   Emmanuel  Leutze’s famous painting of the crossing of the  Delaware, for example, the flag portrayed was  not in use until 1777. Another example of the  sainting of Washington portrays him kneeling  in a lonely clearing near Valley Forge. Accord -  ing to legend, a man told his wife, “I am greatly  deceived if God do not, through Washington,  work out a great salvation for America.”  George   Washington   was   far   from   being  a believer in established religion. In fact, he  almost had to be dragged to church. The cult  of Washington found its greatest growth during  the 19th-century. Americans compared him to  Moses, Jesus, and various saints. He was often  portrayed as a Roman nobleman or a knight.  One 19th-century Chinese painting portrays  Washington ascending to heaven with an angel.  Watauineiwa   (the most ancient one)   In the  mythology of the Yahgan Indians of Tierra  del Fuego, supreme being. He is a beneficent  god with no body, and he lives in the heavens.  Though not the creator, Watauineiwa sustains  life and is believed to be the upholder of moral  order.  water of life   In world folklore, magic water  that restores the dead to life, cures all illness,  or bestows immortality. Juan Ponce de León’s  quest for the Fountain of Youth contains the  motif of a water of life, as does Hawthorne’s  tale   Dr. Heidigger’s Experiment.  See also:   fountain of youth  Wave Maidens   In Norse mythology, the  nine daughters of the sea god Aegir and his  sister-wife Ran, mothers of Heimdall. They  are Gialp (yelper), Greip (gripper), Egia (foam -  er), Augeia (sand strewer), Ulfrun (she-wolf),  Aurgiafa (sorrow-whelmer), Sindur (dusk), Atla  (fury), Aiarnsaxa (iron sword). They appear in  the   Poetic Edda   in the Lay of Hyndla.  See also:   aegir; heimdall;   poetic edda ; ran  Wayland the Smith   (artful smith)   In medi -  eval English legend, the wonder-working smith,  sometimes called simply Wayland or Smith and  in Norse, Volund the Smith. Wayland was the  son of a sailor and a mermaid. He was king of  the elves and a maker of magic articles, such as  a feather boat, a garment with wings, a solid  gold arm ring, and magic swords. Wayland  raised the young Siegfried in the forest and  made his sword, Balmung, for him. Wayland’s  brothers married Valkyries. Despite his clever -  ness, Wayland was made a prisoner by Nidudr,  the evil king of Sweden, who had his feet muti -  lated. Eventually, Wayland killed two sons of  Nidudr and raped his daughter Bodhilda. He  set the skulls of the slain boys in gold and gave  them to Nidudr. He gave their mother jewelry  fashioned from their eyes. Their teeth were  made into a breast pin for their sister. After he  had given his gifts and told Nidudr what they  were, he flew away to Valhalla on his magic  wings. Sir Walter Scott mentions Wayland in  his novel   Kenilworth,   which says that he lived in  a cave near Lambourn, Berkshire, since called  Wayland Smith’s Cave. It was believed that if  a traveler tied up his horse there, left sixpence  for a fee, and hid from sight, he would find his  horse shod when he returned.  See also:   balmung; siegfried; valhalla;  valkyries  weasel   A small carnivorous mammal with a  long slender body. For the ancient Greeks the  weasel was a symbol of evil. If one appeared  at a meeting, the group would disperse. In  Apuleius’s   Golden Ass   witches transform them -  selves into weasels. It was believed by medi -  eval   Christians   that   the   weasel   conceived  through the ear. For the medieval Christian  it became a symbol of unfaithfulness, though  there was also a medieval belief that the Virgin  Mary was impregnated through the ear. The  saying was “God spoke through the angel and  the Virgin was impregnated through the ear.”  The   Gesta Romanorum   uses the weasel as a  symbol of St. John or Christ himself because  1026   Watauineiwa

=== 페이지 1044 ===
the weasel was an enemy of the basilisk, or  serpent—the devil. In the 1840s popular song  “Pop Goes the Weasel,” the weasel may stand  for a whore.  See also:   basilisk; virgin mary  Webster, Daniel   (1782–1852)   In American  history   and   folklore,   lawyer,   public   official,  statesman, and orator. He appears in Stephen  Vincent Benét’s short story “The Devil and  Daniel Webster.” In it Jabez Stone, a New  Hampshire farmer, sells his soul to Mr. Scratch,  the devil. When Mr. Scratch comes to collect,  Daniel Webster defends Stone before a jury of  depraved characters and wins the case. Benét  dramatized the tale, and Douglas Moore wrote  the music for the opera   The Devil and Daniel  Webster.   A Hollywood film of the tale was made  titled   All That Money Can Buy   (1941), starring  Walter Huston as Mr. Scratch.  Wei T’o   In Chinese Buddhism, a god who  protects the Buddhist religion. His image is  placed in the first hall of a Buddhist monastery.  He is portrayed in complete armor and holding  a scepter-shaped weapon of assault.  Wele   (high   one)   In   African   mythology  (Abaluyia   of   Kenya),   creator   sky   god   who  built his home, heaven, on pillars and made  it   always   bright.   The   first   human   couple  also lived in a house that stood up in the air.  When they went home, they always pulled  up the ladder because there were monsters  down below. Wele is said to have sent death  as a punishment for man’s cruelty. Once Wele  observed   how   a   farmer   refused   food   to   a  hungry chameleon. Angered, the chameleon  cursed the farmer, saying the farmer would  die. The chameleon left and was later fed by a  snake. Wele then decided that humans should  die for their evil natures, but the kind snake  should be rewarded with renewed life by shed -  ding his skin.  See   also:   mulungu; mwambu and sela;  olorun; unkulunkulu; were  Welty,   Eudora   (1909–2001)   A   southern  American writer of short stories and nov -  els   who   incorporated   traditional   folktales  and legends, as well as Greek, Roman, and  Celtic   mythology,   into   her   literary   works.  The names of her characters often suggest  a mythical dimension: for instance, Phoenix  Jackson   in   “A   Worn   Path.”   Other   stories  employ folk beliefs that are often at the cen -  ter of local legends, or other traditional ele -  ments, such as wicked stepmothers, breaking  of taboos, and magic formulas. Characters  from American legend and history also appear  in Welty’s works, including Mike Fink and  the Harp Brothers.  See also:   mike fink  Wenceslaus and Ludmilla, Sts.   (10th cen-  tury)   In Christian legend, Wenceslaus is the  patron saint of Bohemia. Wenceslaus’s feast  day is 28 September, and Ludmilla’s is 16  September.  Wenceslaus was brought up a Christian  by his grandmother, Ludmilla. Drahomia, his  mother, and her son Boleslaus were pagans and  opposed the conversion of Bohemia to Christi -  anity by Wenceslaus and Ludmilla. Drahomia  and Boleslaus had Ludmilla killed by hired  assassins who strangled her to death with a veil  or a rope. Wenceslaus, however, made peace  with his mother and brother. After Wenceslaus  married, Boleslaus realized he would not be  made   king.   He   therefore   arranged   for   the  murder of Wenceslaus. He invited the king to  celebrate the feast of Sts. Cosmas and Damien.  On his way to Mass, Wenceslaus was killed  by   his   brother   and   some   hired   henchmen.  The people immediately claimed the king as  a martyr.  The   English   carol   “Good   King   Wenc -  eslaus,” written in the 19th century by J. M.  Neale,   is   about   the   sainted   king.   Antonin  Dvorák’s oratorio   St. Ludmilla   is based on the  medieval legend.  In medieval Christian art St. Wenceslaus is  portrayed as a king with an eagle on his banner  Wenceslaus and Ludmilla, Sts.   1027

=== 페이지 1045 ===
or shield. St. Ludmilla is shown with a veil or  rope, symbols of her martyrdom. Wenceslaus is  the English form of the Czech form Vaclav.  See also:   cosmas and damien, sts.  Wen Chang Ti-chun   (fourth century   c.e. ? )  In Chinese Taoist mythology, the deified mor -  tal Chang Ya-Tzu, worshipped as the principal  god of literature. In Chinese art he is often  portrayed holding a pen and a book on which  is written: “Heaven decides literary success.”  Sometimes   he   is   portrayed   as   a   handsome  young man in a sitting position.  Wenenut   In   Egyptian   mythology,   goddess  portrayed as a woman with the head of a hare  or rabbit. Wenenut usually holds a knife in each  hand, identifying her with the destructive god -  dess Sekhet. But in her more benevolent aspect  Wenenut holds a scepter in one hand and the  ankh, sign of life, in the other. Her male counter -  part was the hare god Wonenu, who was consid -  ered a form of Osiris, the god of resurrection.  See also:   ankh; osiris; sekhet  Were   (father of grace)   In African mythology  (Luo of Kenya), creator god, cause of life and  death, who punishes evildoers with his thun -  derbolts. Sacrifices and offerings to Were are  made in the morning under large trees.  See also:   wele  werewolf   (man wolf)   A human being who  is transformed into a wolf by any number of  methods. The belief in werewolves is interna -  tional in scope, and in those countries where  there are no wolves, the fiercest wild animal  of that region replaces the wolf. Information  on werewolves can be traced back as far as  Herodotus in the fifth century   b.c.e.   “Scyths  and Greeks who live in Scythia tell that every  Neuroi   [Proto-Slav–Eastern Balt] is transformed  once a year for some days to wolf, after which  he resumes his former shape.”  These bloodthirsty animals hunt other ani -  mals, occasionally humans, and eat the meat  raw. They are nocturnal and must assume their  human   form   before   daybreak.   Humans   can  Wen Chang Ti-chun  Wenenut  1028   Wen Chang Ti-chun

=== 페이지 1046 ===
become werewolves by donning a wolf skin or  a magic belt. In some countries, particularly  in eastern Europe, humans become wolves by  passing through a bow formed by poles or stakes  driven into the ground or through a natural  opening in a live tree. The transformation brings  about a radical change in the person’s behavior,  making him a carnivore. Reversing the process  will restore the human form. One legend in the  Baltic countries tells of a man who offered a wolf  a piece of bread on the point of his knife. The  wolf took the bread and the knife and ran into  the woods. Later the man recognized his knife  at a merchant’s store in Riga, whereupon he was  richly rewarded by the merchant. Among some  Slavs, werewolves and vampires have merged.  Rarely, werewolves also function as protectors  of communities. Fear of werewolves may also  have contributed to Charles Perrault’s rendition  of Little Red Riding Hood.  See also:   little red riding hood  Wesak   (Vesak)   In Theravada Buddhism, the  combined feast of the Buddha’s birth, enlight -  enment, and   parimbbana   (death and Nirvana),  observed at the May full moon.  See also:   nirvana  whale   A large air-breathing marine mammal  with a fishlike body. In Christian folklore the  whale has often been equated with the devil  or   demonic   forces.   One   medieval   Christian  belief was that a whale would lure fish by its  sweet breath and then eat them, just as the devil  would lure a person to sin. One tale found in the  Jewish Talmud tells how sailors could mistake a  whale for an island and board the monster.  After they made a fire, the whale would begin to  descend, taking the crew to their watery death.  The tale was also told in medieval Europe.  Milton’s   Paradise Lost   gives a variant of the tale  and identifies the whale with Leviathan, the  primeval dragon in the Old Testament (Psalm  74:14) that Yahweh, the Hebrew God, subdued.  In the biblical Book of Jonah the prophet fled  the Lord by boarding a ship so that he would  not have to preach. A storm arose; the sailors  blamed Jonah and cast him into the sea. “Now  the Lord has prepared a great fish to swallow  Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish  three days and three nights” (Jonah 1:17). The  author of the Gospel according to St. Matthew,  not satisfied with “great fish,” writes that Jonah  “was three days and three nights in the whale’s  belly” (Matt. 12:40). The symbolism was to  suggest that Christ would be three days and  three nights in the tomb before he would arise.  The most famous use of the whale in modern  literature   is   Herman   Melville’s   novel   Moby-  Dick, or The White Whale,   in which scholars see  the whale as a symbol of the devil, God, a com -  bination of both, or man. There are numerous  motifs associated with the whale in the   Motif  Index of Folk Literature.  See also:   jonah; kraken; talmud; yahweh  wheat   Cereal grasses cultivated for their grain,  often called corn in English literature. Wheat  was   sacred   to   the   Greek   goddess   Demeter,  who gave it as a gift to humankind. In Roman  mythology, wheat was sacred to Ceres, goddess  of the harvest. In Christian ritual, wheat, which  makes bread, forms part of the Holy Eucharist.  In French Christian folklore, the Virgin Mary  is sometimes addressed as   Notre-Dame Penetière  (Our Lady the Bread Giver).  See also:   corn; demeter  Whitsunday   In   Christian   ritual,   English  name   for   the   Feast   of   Pentecost,   ranking  in   importance   with   Christmas   and   Easter.  Whitsunday commemorates the descent of the  Holy Spirit on the Apostles and disciples, the  founding of the Church, the gifts of the Holy  Spirit, and the mission to bring the Christian  faith to all peoples throughout the world. The  name   Pentecost   comes from the Greek word for  50 and refers to the 50 days after the Jewish  Passover, which the ancient Jews celebrated  as   Shavuoth,   a   festival   of   thanksgiving   for  the year’s harvest (Exodus 23:16). The Jewish  feast also commemorated the giving of the  Whitsunday   1029

=== 페이지 1047 ===
Law of Moses. The entire time from Passover  to Pentecost was also called Pentecost, and  thus the disciples were gathered together, as  described in Acts 2:1ff, at the end of the 50  days. The early Church adopted the Greek  name from the Jewish feast. When the feast is  called Whitsunday, as in   The Book of Common  Prayer,   it refers to the custom in northern  European countries of conferring baptism dur -  ing   the   time.   The   candidates   for   baptism  were   dressed   in   white,   thus   White-Sunday,  or Whitsunday. Since it was too cold in many  northern European countries to baptize dur -  ing the great Easter vigil, many of the customs  were transferred to Pentecost.  As part of the great feast the hymn   Veni  Sancte Spiritus   (Come Holy Spirit) is sung dur -  ing the Eucharist. The hymn is attributed to  Stephen Langton, archbishop of Canterbury  in the early 12th century. In England during  the Middle Ages Pentecost was the time when  people would contribute to the upkeep of the  church building, as well as give money to the  cathedral if their house had a chimney. The  offering to the cathedral was called Whitsun-  darthing   or   smoke-farthing.   Local   churches  also sold church ale, often called Whitsun ale.  Other   European   Christians   would   let   loose  doves from the church rafters or send down hot  or lighted coals (or “tongues of fire”) to recap -  ture the descent of the Holy Spirit on the Apos -  tles. The doves were released when the priest  intoned the   Veni Sancte Spiritus,   and the people  made loud noises with drums, whistles, and  other noisemakers to symbolize the sound “as  of a violent wind blowing,” as described in Acts  2:2. In some countries in Europe on the night  before Pentecost people still walk barefoot on  the grass to obtain its healing power, while  others collect the dew of the eve of Pentecost  on cakes or bread and serve it to the animals  to protect them from illness. The Maypole, so  hated by the English Puritans, was also one of  the symbols connected with Pentecost. A play  on the name referred to it as Wisdom Sunday.  See also:   apostle  Whittington, Dick   (Died 1423)   In English  history and legend, a poor orphaned country  boy who becomes the lord mayor of London.  Dick heard that London was “paved with gold”  and went there to earn a living. At the point of  near starvation Dick found work with a kind  merchant’s family as a cook’s helper. The cook,  however, mistreated Dick, and the boy ran away.  Resting by a roadside, he heard the cow bells  ring, and they seemed to say to him: “Turn again,  Whittington, thrice Lord Mayor of London.” So  Dick returned to his master. In time his master  made Dick an offer to go on a ship bound for  Morocco. Dick had nothing but a cat, which  accompanied him. When he arrived in Morocco,  he discovered that the king of Morocco was  having trouble with mice, and Whittington’s  cat eliminated them. This so pleased the king  that he bought the cat from Whittington at a  fantastic price. Dick invested the money, mar -  ried his master’s daughter, was knighted, and was  thrice elected lord mayor of London. An epitaph  destroyed in the Great Fire of London said:  Beneath this stone lies Whittington,  Sir Richard rightly named,  Who three times Lord Mayor served in  London,  In which he ne’er was blamed.  He rose from indigence to wealth  By industry and that,  For lo! he scorned to gain by stealth  What he got by a cat.  Wi-haru   (the place where the wise words of  those who have gone before us are resting)  In North American Indian mythology (Paw -  nee), an invisible but sacred spot in a traditional  Pawnee home, between the buffalo altar at the  rear of the lodge and the central fireplace, all of  these on a line from the entrance.  Wihio   In North American Indian mythology  (Cheyenne), the trickster. In one myth Wihio  persuades a coyote to dress as a baby, while he  1030   Whittington, Dick

=== 페이지 1048 ===
dresses as a woman, so that they can get some  food from a man who stores tongue. The man  gives the tongue to Wihio, who proceeds to  eat it all. “Give me some too; I’m also hungry,”  the coyote cries out. But Wihio just continues  to eat the tongue and dips his fingers in the  soup for the coyote to lick. When the coyote  threatens to reveal the deception to the man  who gave them food, Wihio takes him out and  throws him into the lake.  See also:   coyote; trickster  Wild Hunt   (German   wilde Jagd,   French   mesnie  Hellequin )   In German folklore, a series of leg -  ends concerning a ghostly hunter often accom -  panied by dogs or spirits and often engaged in  hunting down a woman, a supernatural being.  Sometimes   the   hunter   is   associated   with   a  historical figure, such as Dietrich of Bern or  Satan, but most often with Odin. Legends tell  of a woman with huge breasts slung over her  shoulder rushing by, then the hunter passes,  and finally the hunter returns with the captured  woman. There is usually a noise like wind in  the trees. In Austria in the 1930s there was an  attempt by Otto Höfler and others to suggest  a connection with an ecstatic Odin cult, which  still   survived   in   the   German-speaking   lands  in many parades and processions, particularly  during certain times of the year, Shrovetide for  example. Most scholars tend, however, toward  an interpretation that sees remnants of an Indo-  European warrior cult of young men dressed  in animal skins who were being initiated into a  warrior band that united them with their fallen  companions. The motif of the wild hunt is  widely known in folk tales (E501.11ff.).  See also:   asgardreia; dietrich of bern;  motif; odin; satan  Wild   Man   At   the   end   of   winter,   during  what is now called   Fasnacht   (Shrovetide) in  the German-speaking world, it has long been  customary to celebrate the coming of spring  and summer. In South Tyrol there has been a  custom of   Pflugumziehen   (plow procession) as a  preliminary to   Fasnacht   celebrations. There is  little doubt that it represents the awakening of  spring and the fertility of the fields, but it also  shows the strength of the men and the diffi -  culty of their work. Men dress in costumes that  suggest demonic spirits. In the past, this plow-  procession often ended with the hunting down  and driving out of wild creatures, or “Wild  Men,” giant figures with long hair and clubs.  These forest people ( Silvani ) are well known in  the legends—mountain folk said to be winter  demons, driven out of the forest, conquered,  and   victoriously   paraded   about.   Sometimes  they were tried and symbolically killed by spill -  ing animal blood poured into a pig’s bladder.  On occasion, in the place of the Wild Man, a  bear would appear, or sometimes   Schnappviecher  (snapping creatures). Precautions had to be  taken to warn the populace about the spir -  its that are moving around during this time.  Particularly dangerous was the sudden appear -  ance of an unknown, unexpected, and mysterious  figure. Similar customs today include begging  processions ( Heischegänge ), noise-making, and  burning, drowning, or burying of effigy fig -  ures, sometimes in a manure pile.  See also:   fasnacht; shrovetide  William of Norwich, St.   (Died 1137?)   In  Christian legend, child saint said to have been  “ritually murdered” by the Jews. The accusa -  tion was quite common during the Middle  Ages and was used by secular and religious  authorities in their attempt to destroy the Jews.  This is usually referred to as the “blood libel  legend.” Feast, 9 April.  Thomas de Monmouth in his   History of the  Martyrdom of William of Norwich,   a contem -  porary   account,   writes   that   the   12-year-old  William, who was apprenticed to a tanner at  Norwich, England, was killed on Good Friday, 9  April 1137, by Jews. The lurid account describes  how the boy was taken, gagged, and crucified.  After he was dead, his body was placed in a sack  and carried to the city gates of Thorpe Wood,  where it was to be burned. The murderers were  William of Norwich, St.   1031

=== 페이지 1049 ===
surprised and left the body hanging near a tree.  A chapel was afterward erected on the spot and  dedicated to St. William in the Wood. In 1144  the body was removed to the churchyard of the  Cathedral of the Holy Trinity.  Numerous other child saints with similar  tales   abound   in   medieval   Christian   legend.  Among them are Hugh of Lincoln, St. Janot of  Cologne, St. Richard of Pontoise, St. Michael  of Sappendelf, St. Simon of Trent, St. Vernier,  and St. Werner or Garnier.  See also:   blood libel legend  William   of   Orange   (will-helmet)   In   the  Charlemagne cycle of legends, a hero who  appears   in   numerous   French   epics.   All   we  know of the historical William is that he was  a contemporary of Charlemagne, whom he  served as a military leader and administrator.  In legend, he is a devoted protector of Louis,  Charlemagne’s son, as well as a defender of the  Christian faith against the Muslims of Spain.  Seven French epics describe his life. Dante’s  The Divine Comedy   places him in Paradise in  the sphere of Crusaders, beside Charlemagne  and Godfrey of Boulogne. He also appears in  medieval Norse, Italian, and Latin legends. In  some accounts he is credited with being a saint  because he spent his last years in a monastery.  See also:   charlemagne  William of Palermo   In medieval legend, a  hero, son of King Apulia of Palermo. As heir  to the throne, William’s life was in danger, so  he was carried away by Alphonse, a werewolf  prince of Spain who had been transformed by  his evil stepmother. Alphonse brought the child  to Rome, where William was adopted by a  shepherd. When the boy grew up, he became a  page to the Roman emperor’s daughter, Melior.  The two fell in love and after many adventures  were   married.   Alphonse,   the   werewolf,   was  finally disenchanted. William appears in the  English poem   William of Palerne,   based on a  French metrical romance.  See also:   werewolf  William   of   York,   St.   (will-helmet)  (Died   1154)   In   Christian   legend,   William  Fitzherbert, archbishop of York. Feast, 8 June.  William’s appointment as archbishop was  opposed by the Cistercians. St. Bernard, also  a Cistercian, described William as a “man rot -  ten from the soles of his feet to the crown of  his head.” After taking the case to Rome and  much arguing back and forth, William finally  took his office in 1154. Less than a year later  he was dead. He had been seized by violent  pains while celebrating mass on Trinity Sun -  day. Officially, it was said he died a natural  death, though he is listed as a martyr in some  medieval church calendars. He was canonized  in 1220 on account of the many miracles that  were reported at his tomb.  In medieval English Christian art William  is often portrayed in his episcopal robes. Some -  times he is shown as a tonsured monk praying  in the wilderness with a dove nearby. His shield  had eight lozenges.  See also:   bernard, st.  William Tell   (14th century)   In Swiss his -  tory and legend, a national hero who fought  against the Austrians. According to legend,  William refused to salute the Austrian gov -  ernor, Gessler. As punishment for the insult  he was sentenced to shoot an apple off the  head of his own son with his bow and arrow.  William succeeds, but in his agitation drops  a second arrow from his coat. Gessler inso -  lently demands what the second arrow is for.  William replies: “To shoot you had I failed  in the task imposed upon me.” Gessler then  orders William to be bound and locked in  Küssnacht Castle. Later William is freed by  the people and leads his country in a war  against Austrian domination. He also shoots  Gessler. His legend and life form the subject  of Friedrich von Schiller’s verse play   Wilhelm  Tell   as well as Rossini’s opera   Guillaume Tell,  based on Schiller’s play.  See also:   culture hero; hero tale  1032   William of Orange

=== 페이지 1050 ===
Introduction   1033  Statue of William Tell and his son, Aldorf, Switzerland   (Richard Kissling)

=== 페이지 1051 ===
William the Conqueror   (c. 1027–1087)   In  English history and legend, king of England  and   duke   of   Normandy   after   the   Norman  Conquest in 1066. At the Battle of Hastings  between the Norman and Saxons, King Harold  of   the   Saxons   was   killed.   William   at   once  marched on to London and was crowned on  Christmas Day at Westminster. Many of the  people believed that Harold was the rightful  king, not William, even though the church  supported William’s claims. William died after  a horseback accident. At his funeral, accord -  ing to legend, his body burst open, and a foul  odor was emitted, forcing the mourners to  flee the church. The conquered people said it  was God’s judgment on the Norman for kill -  ing Harold, the last of the Saxon kings. The  conflict of William and Harold is the subject  of   Tennyson’s   verse   play   Harold   and   Hope  Muntz’s novel   The Golden Warrior: The Story of  Harold and William.  willow   A tree; in Near Eastern mythology,  sacred to the Great Mother goddess. Called  Artemis Lygodesma, she was portrayed as a  mother suckling a child decked with branches  of the   lygos,   a member of the willow family. In  Greek mythology, the willow was sacred to  Hera, Circe, Hecate, and Persephone, all forms  of the Great Mother goddess and associated  with life and death. In Jewish folklore, the wil -  low is associated with mourning, sadness, and  death, as reflected in Psalm 137:1. In Christian  symbolism, the willow is one of the trees asso -  ciated with the Virgin Mary, and in Chinese  mythology, it is associated with the goddess of  mercy, Kuan Yin. Shakespeare combines the  image of the willow’s sadness with that of death  in Desdemona’s “Willow Song” before she is  murdered on her marriage bed by Othello. In  The Merchant of Venice   (5:1) Lorenzo refers to  Dido, queen of Carthage, as holding a “willow  in her hand” the night she killed herself for  love of Aeneas, who deserted her.  See   also:   aeneas;   dido;   hecate;   hera;  persephone; virgin mary  Windigo   (Windlgo)   In   North   American  Indian   mythology   (Chippewa/Ojibwa),   can -  nibal ice monster, threat to all who practice  evil   medicine.   During   famine,   humans   can  also become Windigo and seek human flesh.  Hunters and trappers often reported sightings  of Windigos and warned about places to avoid.  Windingo   In   American   folklore,   a   ghost  about 15 feet tall who frightened the citizens of  Roseau, Minnesota, for generations. Each time  the ghost was seen, a person died. In American  Indian folklore the Windingo was the terrible  cannibal spirit of the cold, and thus the Indians  of this region kept their children extra safe dur -  ing the cold winters.  Winefred,   St.   (Winefride,   Wenefrida,  Gwenfrewi, Guinevra) (blessed reconciliation)  (Died 650)   In Christian legend, saint vener -  ated at Holywell, Wales. Feast, 3 November.  According   to   medieval   Christian   legend,  one day Cradorus (Caradoc), the son of King  Alan of North Wales, found Winefred alone  in her father’s house and tried to rape her.  She fled, pursued by Cradorus, who cut off  her head. When the head of Winefred hit  the ground, a fountain sprang up, later called  Winefred’s   Well   or   Holywell.   Her   spiritual  teacher,   St.   Beno   (Beuno),   came   upon   her  head and set it back on her torso, and the girl  returned home in one piece.  In medieval Christian art St. Winefred is  portrayed with a sword, a fountain at her feet,  and a red ring around her neck to indicate that  her head had been cut off. Sometimes she is  depicted in art like St. Denis, carrying her head  in her hands.  See also:   denis, st.  Wisdom to Fools   Jewish fable found in the  Midrash.  One day a woman asked Rabbi Yose bar  Halaftah, “Why is it written in the Book of  Daniel that God gives wisdom to the wise?  1034   William the Conqueror

=== 페이지 1052 ===
Would it not be better if he gave wisdom to  fools, who need it?”  The rabbi said he would explain the answer  by a parable. “Imagine two people who wish to  borrow money from you. One is rich and one  is poor. To which of the two would you lend  your money?”  “The rich man,” replied the woman.  “Why?” the rabbi asked.  “Because if he loses his money, he’ll find  some means to repay me. But where will a poor  man get money to repay me?”  “Well,” replied Rabbi Yose, “if God gave  wisdom to fools, what would they do with it?  They would waste it. That’s why he gives wis -  dom to the wise to use in study.”  See also:   midrash  Witch of Endor   In the Bible, O.T., a medi -  um consulted by King Saul on the day of the  battle in which the spirit of the dead prophet  Samuel was raised. Samuel told Saul that he  would be dead the next day and would join  him in the land of the dead (1 Sam. 28:7–25).  Handel’s oratorio   Saul   contains a magnificent  scene for the Witch of Endor.  See also:   samuel; saul  Witch of Wellfleet   In American folklore of  New England, a 17th-century witch, believed to  be Goody Hallett, who always wore scarlet shoes.  Hallett was 15 years old when she was seduced  by   a   pirate   named   Samuel   “Black”   Bellamy.  When she was found to be pregnant, she was  arrested and whipped by the townspeople. Some  said she murdered the child. While she was in  prison, the devil, dressed as a handsome French  dandy, appeared, and she signed away her soul  to get revenge on Bellamy, whose ship was then  sunk by the devil. She appeared in many guises  over the years, often causing storms to drown  seamen. When a storm arose, people said, “Thar  be pore Goody, dancin’ with the lost souls.” Her  exact end is not known, although some say she  was strangled to death by the devil when she beat  him at dice. Others say she married an Indian.  Wiwonderrer   In   Australian   mythology,  stone animals who kill human beings. They  can be destroyed only if speared in the eyes or  the mouth.  Woden   (Voden,   Votan,   Wotan,   Wootan)   The  Anglo-Saxon name of the Norse god Odin.  Wednesday (Woden’s day) is derived from his  name. He was the god of agriculture, and thus  Wednesday was considered to be especially  favorable for planting. In Richard Wagner’s  Der Ring des Nibelungen   he is called Wotan.  See also:   odin;   ring des nibelungen, der  Wolf and the Crane, The   Aesopic fable  found in various collections throughout the  world. A wolf, in gorging himself on some poor  animal he had killed, got a small bone stuck in  his throat. The pain was terrible, and he ran  up and down beseeching every animal he met  to relieve him. None of the animals, however,  felt very sorry for the wolf, for, as one of them  put it, “That bone which is stuck in the wolf’s  throat might just as well be one of mine.”  Finally the suffering wolf met the crane.  “I’ll give you anything,” he whined, “if you will  help take this bone out of my throat.”  The crane, moved by his entreaties and prom -  ises of reward, ventured her long neck down the  wolf’s throat and drew out the bone. She then  modestly asked for the promised reward.  “Reward?” barked the wolf, showing his  teeth. “Of all the ungrateful creatures! I have  permitted you to live to tell your grandchil -  dren that you put your head in a wolf’s mouth  without having it bitten off, and then you ask  for a reward! Get out of here before I change  my mind!”  Moral:   Those who live on expectation are sure  to be disappointed.  The   fable   probably   originated   in   India,  where in one account the Buddha tells the story  of a lion and a crane to illustrate the ingratitude  of the wicked. The fable ends: “The master, hav -  ing given the lesson, summed up the moral: ‘At  the time the lion was Devaddatta [the Buddhist  Wolf and the Crane, The   1035

=== 페이지 1053 ===
Judas] and the crane was myself.’ ” The Bud -  dhistic form of the fable first became known to  Europe in 1691 in De la Loubere’s   Description of  Siam.   One version, which uses the lion instead  of the wolf, was used by Rabbi Jochanan ben  Saccai (c. 120   c.e. ) to persuade the Jews not to  revolt against the Romans. The account is found  in   Bereshith Rabba,   a commentary on Genesis.  The fable is pictured on the Bayeux tapestry.  See also:   aesopic fables; devaddatta  Wolf and the Lamb, The   Aesopic fable found  in various collections throughout the world.  As a wolf was lapping at the head of a  running brook he spied a lamb daintily pad -  dling his feet some distance down the stream.  “There’s my supper,” thought the wolf. “But  I’ll have to find some excuse for attacking such  a harmless creature.” So he shouted down at  the lamb: “How dare you foul my stream.”  “But you must be mistaken,” bleated the  lamb. “How can I be spoiling your water, since it  runs from you to me and not from me to you?”  “Don’t argue,” snapped the wolf. “I know  you. You are the one who was saying those ugly  things about me behind my back a year ago.”  “Oh, sir,” replied the lamb, trembling, “a  year ago I was not even born.”  “Well,” snarled the wolf, “if it was not you,  then   it   was   your   father.”   Without   another  word he fell on the helpless lamb and tore her  to pieces.  Moral:   Any excuse will serve a tyrant.  The fable appears in Tibet and in Madagas -  car. In the   Jatakas, or Birth-Stories of the Former  Lives of the Buddha,   a panther meets a kid and  complains that his tail has been stepped on.  The kid gently points out that the panther’s  face was toward him, so how could he have  stepped on his tail?  The panther says: “My tail covers the earth.”  The kid replies: “But I came through the  air.”  The panther says: “I saw you frightening  the beasts by coming through the air. You pre -  vented my getting any prey.”  See also:   aesopic fables;   jataka  Wolfgang,   St.   (wolf-strife)   (Died   994)   In  Christian legend, bishop who once forced the  devil to hold the Gospel book while he read  aloud from it. He is the patron saint of carpen -  ters, shepherds, and woodsmen and is invoked  against gout, hemorrhage, lameness, stomach  troubles, and wolves. Feast, 31 October.  Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing, The   Aesopic  fable, though it does not occur in any early  collections attributed to Aesop. It is derived  from   the   New   Testament   (Matt.   7:15)   by  an Italian fabulist, Abstemius, of the 15th  century.  A wolf had been lurking near a flock of  sheep for several days. But the shepherd had  been so vigilant in guarding his animals that  the wolf was becoming desperate. Then one  day the wolf found a sheepskin that had been  thrown away. Quickly, he slipped it on over his  own hide and made his way among the flock of  grazing sheep. Even the shepherd was deceived  by the ruse. When night came the wolf in his  disguise was shut up with the sheep in the fold.  But that evening the shepherd, wanting some -  thing for his supper, went down to the fold and,  reaching in, seized the first animal he came to.  Mistaking the wolf for a sheep, the shepherd  killed him on the spot.  Moral:   Appearances often are deceiving. Aesop’s The Wolf and the Lamb  1036   Wolf and the Lamb, The

=== 페이지 1054 ===
Illustration for Aesop’s The Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing   (Gustave Doré)  Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing, The   1037

=== 페이지 1055 ===
Thackeray makes use of the fable in the  Prologue to his novel   The Newcomers.  See also:   aesopic fables  Wollonqua   In   Australian   mythology,   the  great snake of the Warramunga, who rose out  of the Thapauerlu, a vast water hole in the  Murchinson Ranges. Wollonqua is said to be  so gigantic that even though he traveled many  miles from his water hole, his tail was still  in it. Wollonqua’s human male companion,  Mumumanugara, tried to force the great snake  back into his hole, but instead the snake coiled  itself around him. In Warramunga ritual the  journeys of Wollonqua are acted out by the  men. They draw various designs on the ground  portraying the adventures of the great snake,  who is portrayed covered with red down.  Wondjina   In   Australian   mythology,   pri -  mal beings who appear in various myths that  take place during Ungud (dreamtime). Most  Wondjina   transform   themselves   into   rock  paintings while their spirits inhabit some sacred  water   hole.   The   natives   frequently   retouch  these sacred paintings to promote rains or to  stimulate fertility. When a person dies his body  is painted with red ochre and placed in the cave  where his clan’s Wondjina resides; the dead  man’s spirit descends to a nearby pool to await  rebirth. Paintings of the Wondjina range from  a few feet to 16 feet. Painted against a white  ground, the head is outlined in red or yellow.  The first nonaborigine to see and comment on  them was Sir George Grey in 1838. He inter -  preted them as priests with halos. The eyes and  nose of the Wondjina are linked. No mouth is  portrayed because it is believed that would cause  it to rain all of the time. The figures are painted  with white stripes symbolizing the rain.  See also:   dreamtime  wooden horse or Trojan horse   In Greek  and Roman mythology, a large wooden horse  in which Greek soldiers hid in order to sack  Troy. The horse was designed by Epeius, son  of Panopeus. When the horse was taken into  Troy, the Greeks came out of hiding at night  and destroyed the city.  No mention is made in Homer’s   Iliad   of  the wooden horse, but in the   Odyssey   (book  11) Odysseus tells the ghost of Achilles in the  underworld   that   his   son   Neoptolemus   had  been one of those chosen to go into the device,  which was invented by Odysseus. Vergil’s   Aeneid  (book 2) gives details of the wooden horse and  the fall of Troy.  Sinon, a Greek, pretended that he had been  an intended victim of a sacrifice to assure a safe  retreat by the Greeks but had escaped as the  Greeks sailed away from Troy. He convinced the  Trojans that the wooden horse had been built as  a tribute to Athena and had been abandoned on  the beach when the Greeks decided to retreat.  On hearing this, the Trojans decided to bring  the horse into the city. Both Cassandra, the king’s  daughter, and Laocoön, a priest, warned the Tro -  jans not to trust the Greeks. Laocoön hurled his  spear into the horse’s side and uttered a warning:  Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes   (I fear the Greeks  even when they bring gifts). Shortly after that  Laocoön was destroyed by a sea monster, and the  Trojans took that as a favorable sign for bringing  in the wooden horse. During the night, after the  horse was safely inside the city walls, the Greeks  emerged from it and opened the city gates to  their waiting troops. The city fell.  The event was painted by Giovanni Bat -  tista Tiepolo in a work titled   The Building of  the Trojan Horse   (c. 1760). There is an early  Roman wall painting from Pompeii depicting  The Wooden Horse Brought into Troy   (second half  of the first century   c.e. ) and a late 15th-century  Franco-Flemish tapestry that shows the Trojan  horse within the walls of Troy.  See also:   achilles;   aeneid, the ; cassandra;  iliad, the; laocoön; odysseus;   odyssey, the ;  troy  Woodman and the Serpent, The   Aesopic  fable found in various collections throughout  the world.  1038   Wollonqua

=== 페이지 1056 ===
One winter’s day as a woodman was home -  ward bound from market he found a snake  lying   half   dead   with   cold   by   the   roadside.  Taking compassion on the frozen creature, he  placed it under his coat to warm it. Then he  hastened home and put the serpent down on  the hearth where a cheery fire was blazing.  The children watched it with great interest and  rejoiced to see it slowly come to life again. But  as one of them knelt down to stroke the reviv -  ing snake, it raised its head and darted out its  fangs and would have stung the child to death.  Quickly the woodman seized his matlock and  with one stroke cut the serpent in two.  Moral:   No gratitude is to be expected from the  wicked.  The fable occurs in the great Indian epic  poem   The Mahabharata.   Versions vary as to the  threatened victim. In some it is the woodman  himself, in others it is one of his children after  he arrives home. In one medieval version a  woman finds and nourishes the snake.  See also:   aesopic fables  woodpecker   Bird   with   a   strong,   straight,  pointed beak, long tongue with barbs at the tip,  and tail feathers that are stiff and pointed at the  tip. In Greek mythology the woodpecker was a  prophetic bird with great magical power and  sacred to Zeus, the sky god, and Ares, the war  god. In Roman mythology both Jupiter and  Mars, the Latin counterparts of Zeus and Ares,  also were associated with the bird. In Hindu  mythology the sky god Indra transformed him -  self into a woodpecker for some of his sexual  exploits, as did Zeus in Greek mythology and  Mars in Roman mythology. Partly because of  the woodpecker’s association with Greek and  Roman beliefs, the early Christians identified  the bird with the devil. In animated cartoons  The Trojans Pulling the Wooden Horse into City   (after Primaticcio)  woodpecker   1039

=== 페이지 1057 ===
the character of Woody Woodpecker captures  the trickster nature ascribed to so many ani -  mals in world mythology and folklore.  See   also:   ares; indra; mars; trickster;  zeus  Work   Projects   Administration   (WPA)   A  government program in the United States dur -  ing the 1930s and 1940s designed to employ  workers who could not find work as a result of  the Great Depression. Although the WPA is pri -  marily known for its work on sidewalks, public  buildings, and lakes, there was a large division  called the Federal Writers Project (FWP), and  one portion of FWP was devoted to the collect -  ing of American folklore. Some of the collected  materials can still be found in state archives, but  some states placed no value on the collections  and lost, misplaced, or destroyed them. A small  portion of the stories, songs, and other tradition -  al expressive forms found their way into the state  guides, published around 1939–1940. Each state  published one of these guidebooks that included  a chapter devoted to the “Folklore and Folkways”  of that state. The Library of Congress collection  includes 2,900 documents representing the work  of more than 300 writers from 24 states. These  documents are typically 2,000 to 15,000 words  in length and consist of drafts and revisions of  narratives or even dialogue reports. The oral  histories describe the informant’s family, educa -  tion, income, occupation, political views, religion  and mores, medical needs, and diet and also  include miscellaneous observations. Pseudonyms  are common for individuals and sometimes even  for places named in the texts.  Wotan   (Woden, Wuotan, Voden, Votan)   In  Germanic mythology, the name given to the  Norse god Odin. It is used by Richard Wagner  in his   Der Ring des Nibelungen.  See also:   odin;   ring des nibelungen, der  Wreck of the Hesperus, The   American lit -  erary ballad by Henry W. Longfellow, published  in 1841, about the wreck of a schooner named  Hesperus.   Longfellow’s ballad was influenced by  the old Scottish ballad “Sir Patrick Spens.”  Wu-fu   (the   five   happinesses)   In   Chinese  folk belief, the five blessings: long life, riches,  tranquillity, a love of virtue, and a good end to  one’s life. The five characters often appear on  chopsticks.  Wu-kuan wang   In Chinese mythology, ruler  of the fourth hell of Ti Yü, the underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Wu Lao   (five odd ones)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, spirits of the five natural forces. They are  Wang Mu (metal), Mu Kung (wood), Shui  Ching-tzu (water), Ch’ih Ching-tzu (fire), and  Huang Lao (earth).  See also:   ch’ih ching-tzu; mu kung; shui  ching-tzu  Wulfilaic, St.   (Died 595)   In Christian leg -  end, one of the pillar saints of the Western  Church. Wulfilaic was a native of Lombardy  who spent part of his life in severe austeri -  ties on a mountain in the Valley of Chiers in  Belgium. St. Gregory of Tours went to see  him and wrote down the following account of  the saint in his   History of the Franks   (book 8).  Wulfilaic tells his own story:  I   came   to   this   mountain   because   here  was erected the gigantic statue of Diana,  which the inhabitants worshipped as a god.  Beside this idol I built a pillar, on the top  of which I placed myself barefooted, and  my sufferings defy description. In winter  the cold froze my feet and all the nails of  my toes.   .   .   . The rain which saturated my  beard turned to ice, which glistened like  candles.   .   .   . My only food was a little bread  and a few vegetables and my only drink was  water. Though my sufferings were so great,  yet   I   felt   satisfaction   in   my   austerities.  When I saw the people come to my pillar  I preached to them, and told them Diana  1040   Work Projects Administration

=== 페이지 1058 ===
was no goddess, and the songs which they  sang in her honor ought to be addressed  to the Creator of heaven and earth. Often  did I pray that God would overturn the  idol, and snatch the people from the error  of their ways. The people listened to my  words, the Savior lent an ear to my prayers,  and the people were converted. I appealed  to some of my converts to assist me in  overthrowing the statue of Diana .   .   . but  it resisted all our efforts. I now went to  church, prostrated myself on the earth,  prayed   earnestly,   wept,   and   groaned   in  spirit, imploring Christ to destroy by His  almighty power that which the power of  man could not move. My prayer being  ended I went to rejoin the workmen. We  seized the ropes, and with a vigorous pull  succeeded   in   overthrowing   the   gigantic  image. I broke it to pieces and reduced it to  powder with a huge sledge hammer.  That   night,   the   devil   covered   Wulfilaic  “with pustules,” but the saint anointed him -  self “from head to foot with some oil” from  St. Martin’s tomb and was cured. Later the  archbishop of Trier asked that Wulfilaic come  down from his pillar and enter a monastery.  The saint obeyed.  See also:   diana; gregory of tours, st.;  martin, st.  Wulfram, St.   (647–720)   In Christian leg -  end, saint venerated at Fontenelle, Frisia, and  Sens. Feast, 20 March.  Wulfram succeeded Lambert as archbishop  of Sens but left his office to become a mission -  ary among the Frisians, taking with him monks  from Fontenelle. Numerous medieval legends  are told of the saint. One tells of his ability  to make a silver paten float on the sea. As St.  Wulfram was sailing from Caudebec to Frisia,  Mass was being celebrated on board. St. Vando,  who was the celebrant, dropped the paten into  the sea while wiping it. St. Wulfram told Vando  to put his hand into the sea. Immediately, the  silver paten was buoyed up into his hand.  Another medieval legend tells how St. Wul -  fram   put   an   end   to   human   sacrifices.   The  Frisians used to offer human sacrifices to their  pagan gods. These sacrifices were sometimes  made   by   strangulation,   the   sword,   fire,   or  water. One day the lot fell on two children of  one mother, children five and seven years old.  St. Wulfram asked King (or Duke) Radbod to  prohibit such cruelty, but the king replied he  could not violate the laws of his gods. The chil -  dren were taken to the sacrifice site near where  two rivers flowed into the sea. Wulfram prayed  to God to save the children, and suddenly the  waters of the two rivers stood like a wall around  them. Walking on the water, Wulfram took the  children and gave them to their mother. The  people were amazed, and many became Chris -  tians, including King Radbod.  St. Wulfram is often portrayed in medieval  Christian art as a bishop baptizing a young king  or arriving by ship with monks and then baptiz -  ing the king.  Wu ta chia   (five big families)   In Chinese  folklore, the five animals—fox, weasel, hedge -  hog, snake, and rat—that are feared because  they are believed to bewitch people.  See   also:   fox;   rat   and   mouse;   snake;  weasel  Wu-yuan kuei   (unrelated ghosts)   In Chi-  nese folklore, a ghost who has no descendants  to provide him with food offerings.  Wu-yuan kuei   1041

=== 페이지 1059 ===
6  1042  X  Xaman Ek   In Mayan mythology, god of the  North Star, the guide of merchants. Incense  was offered to him at roadside altars by his  faithful followers. In Mayan art he is portrayed  with a snub nose and black markings on his  head. Paul Schellhas, classifying the gods in  some Mayan codices, gave Xaman Ek the letter  C,   and he is sometimes known as God C.  Xanthus   (yellow)   In Greek mythology, the  name given to the river god of the Scamander  River in the Troad. In Homer’s   Iliad   (book 20),  when Zeus allowed the gods to choose either  side in the Trojan War, Xanthus flooded the  banks of the Scamander to stop the slaughter  of the Trojans by Achilles because their blood  was polluting the river. To help Achilles, Hera  asked the fire god Hephaestus to set the river  aflame. Xanthus surrendered before the holo -  caust and promised not to reenter the battle.  Xanthus is also the name of the immortal horse  of Achilles; son of Boreas (or Zephyrus) and  Podarge; brother of Balius (piebald). The god -  dess Hera gave Xanthus the power of speech.  He forewarned Achilles of his coming death.  Xanthus wept at the death of Patroclus.  See also:   achilles; boreas; hera; hephaes -  tus;   iliad, the ; patroclus; zephyrus; zeus  Xilonen   In Aztec mythology, goddess of the  growing corn, whose festival, Uei Tecuilhuitl  (22 June), was celebrated with corn tortillas  wrapped around pieces of spiced vegetables and  baked. She was one of the wives of Tezcatlipoca.  Some scholars regard Xilonen as an aspect of  the great goddess Coatlicue.  See also:   coatlicue; tezcatlipoca  Xipe   Totec   (the   flayed   one)   In   Aztec  mythology, god of vegetation, newly planted  seeds, penitential torture, and the west. At his  festival, captives were flayed alive and then  eaten at a ritual meal. After the feast, the skins  of the slain could be worn for up to 20 days by  anyone who had skin complaints they wished  to cure. Because the skins then turned yellow,  Xipe Totec became the patron of goldsmiths.  Xipe Totec gave himself as food to the world  by having himself skinned alive.  Xiuhtecuhtli   (Xiuhtecutli)   In   Aztec   mythol -  ogy, fire god who governed the fifth cardinal  point, the center. He was thus worshipped  as the center of all things and the spindle of  the universe. The god determined the time of  death of each individual.  Xochiquetzal   (lady precious flower, beautiful  rose?)   In Aztec mythology, goddess of sexual  love   and   courtesans,   patroness   of   painters,  embroiderers, weavers, silversmiths, sculptors,  and all whose profession was to imitate nature

=== 페이지 1060 ===
in crafts and drawings. On the Day of the  Dead the goddess was offered marigolds by her  faithful followers. She is the female form of the  bisexual god Tonacatecutli.  See also:   tonacatecutli  Xolas   In   the   mythology   of   the   Alacaluf  Indians of Tierra del Fuego, supreme being.  Xolas puts the soul into each new child. When  a man or woman dies, the soul is reabsorbed  by Xolas.  Xolotl Huetzi   (servant?)   In Aztec mythol -  ogy, lord of the evening star, twin brother of  the god Quetzalcoatl. Though credited with  animal-like demonic qualities, Xolotl was also  responsible for repeopling the earth after it had  been depopulated. He went to the underworld  and brought back a bone of a previous man. As  he was leaving, he was pursued by the god of  the underworld (who was not at all pleased with  his action), and he fell with the bone. It broke  into unequal parts, but Xolotl took what he  could of it and sprinkled it with his own blood.  After four days a boy was born and after seven  days a girl. He then raised the two on the milk  of the thistle, and they became the first parents  of mankind. Xolotl sometimes appeared as a  dwarf or as a dog.  See also:   quetzalcoatl  Xpiyacoc and Xmucané   In Mayan mythol -  ogy, creator deities, the “old man” and “old  woman,”   who   were   involved   with   the   cre -  ation of material objects. The Mayans believed  their gods to be sorcerers, and through magic  Xpiyacoc and Xmucané aided the creator god  Hurakán   in   forming   man   through   various  magic rites.  See also:   hurakán  Xpiyacoc and Xmucané   1043

=== 페이지 1061 ===
6  1044  y  Yabons   In   Australian   mythology,   friendly  spirits who aid men, often warning them of  danger.  Yacatecutli   (lord   of   travelers,   he   who  leads)   In Aztec mythology, god of merchants,  whose symbol was a staff, often sprinkled with  blood by his worshippers. Slaves also were  sacrificed to the god after they had been made  sufficiently fat and pleasing because they were  to be eaten later at a cannibalistic feast.  Yaho   In Australian mythology, a cannibalis -  tic male monster who lives in the mountains.  He kills and roasts his victims, who are always  women. His evil wife is Kurriwilban. He is also  known as Koyorowen.  See also:   kurriwilban  Yahweh   (he   causes   to   be,   he   brings   into  existence?)   In the Bible, O.T., the personal  name of the god of Israel, preserved only in  its   four   consonants,   or   the   tetragammaton  YHWH. By the third century   b.c.e.   the Jews  had either forgotten the correct pronunciation  or had omitted spelling out the entire name  out of reverence because in ancient belief to  know a god’s name was to have power over  the god. The Jews substituted the word   Adonai  (Lord or my Lords) for YHWH. The vowels  of the word   Adonai   were later added to the  consonants YHWH, creating the hybrid form  Jehovah, a name never used by the ancient  Hebrews. According to one account in the Old  Testament, the name Yahweh was revealed to  Moses. God spoke to Moses and said, “I am  Yahweh. To Abraham and Isaac and Jacob I  appeared as El Shaddai; I did not make myself  known to them by my name Yahweh” (Exod.  6:2–3, Jerusalem Bible). But the name Yahweh  appears in biblical narratives before Moses.  In most English Bible translations, including  the King James Version, Yahweh is not used;  Lord is used in its place. The ancient praise-  shout   Hallelujah   (praise the god Yah) contains  the name of the god. Yahweh is used in the  Jerusalem   Bible,   but   the   Revised   Standard  Version and the New English Bible use Lord.  See also:   abraham; isaac; jacob; moses  Yakushi Nyorai   (master physician Buddha)  In Japanese mythology, god of healing, derived  from the   hongji,   the universal Buddhist prin -  ciple;   portrayed   holding   a   small   flask   that  contains medicine. He is often shown with  Gakko (moonlight) and Nikko (sunlight) on  either side.  Yalahau   In Mayan mythology, god of water,  darkness, night, and blackness. Yalahau was a  fearsome warrior, cruel to his people when he  came to earth. In some accounts he is said to be

=== 페이지 1062 ===
the brother of the culture hero and god Votan,  to whom he is an antagonist.  See also:   votan  Yama   (the binder, twin, curb, bridle)   In Hindu  mythology, the god of death, king of hell.  Variant accounts are given for the origin of  Yama. In some texts he is said to have been the  son of Surya, the sun, and married to Saranya.  Yami, his twin sister, suggested that the two  sleep together and people the earth, but Yama  refused the offer. In another text Yama was the  first mortal to die. He discovered the way to  the underworld, earning for himself the title  of god of the dead. In the ancient collection of  hymns the Rig-Veda, Yama is god of the dead,  though he does not punish the wicked, as he  does in later Hindu mythology. One hymn in  the Rig-Veda sums up his role:  To the great King Yama homage pay,  Who was the first of men that died,  That crossed the mighty gulf and spied  For mortals out the heavenward way.  Yama has two dogs, each with four eyes and  wide nostrils, that guard the road to his kingdom.  His scribe is Chitra-gupta, who records the sins  and virtues of the dead. The dead are told to  hurry past them. The dogs go about as messen -  gers of Yama, calling people to his kingdom. In  his kingdom some are allowed sensual pleasures.  In Indian art Yama is portrayed as a green  man, dressed in red, crowned with a flower  in his hair. He is armed with a club and often  rides a buffalo. Among his numerous titles are  Antaka (the ender, death), Kritanta (the fin -  isher), Samana (the settler), Dandi or Danda-  dhara (the rod bearer), Bhimasasana (of terrible  decrees),   Pasi   (the   noose   carrier),   Pitri-pati  (lord of the manes), Preta-raja (king of the  ghosts), Sraddhadeva (god of the faithful offer -  ings), and Dharma-raja (just king).  See also:   rig-veda; surya  Yama-otoko   (mountain   men)   In   Japanese  folklore, wild men who have human-headed  she-wolves as companions. They are consid -  ered insane and often dangerous.  Yama-uba   In   Japanese   folklore,   female  mountain spirits, sometimes seen as terrifying  creatures and at other times as beneficent ones.  In the demonic form one often appears as a  woman with a mouth on top of her head under  her hair, the locks of which transform them -  selves into serpents, catching small children, on  whom she feeds.  Yankee Doodle   Popular North American  ballad, sung during the American Revolution.  Believed   to   have   been   written   in   1775   by  Richard Shuckburth, a British army doctor,  to ridicule the Continental army, the tune and  verse were adopted by the Americans to poke  fun at the British. The American version was  sung by the Americans when Cornwallis sur -  rendered at Yorktown in 1781. Some scholars  believe it is a variant of the nursery rhyme  “Lucy Locket.” Countless versions and paro -  dies   evolved,   some   of   which   made   fun   of  Yama  Yankee Doodle   1045

=== 페이지 1063 ===
officers, including George Washington. There  are said to be as many as 190 verses of Yankee  Doodle. The Hollywood film   Yankee Doodle  Dandy   (1942), starring James Cagney, is about  the entertainer George M. Cohan.  Yao   (2000   b.c.e. ? )   In Chinese legend, cul -  ture hero, emperor of the golden age, who  was   born   with   eyebrows   of   eight   different  colors. With the help of Yi, the Divine Archer,  he subdued the winds, and with the help of  K’un he attempted to quell the floodwaters of  the Yellow River. When he wished to pass his  throne on to Shun rather than to his own sons,  the earth was nearly destroyed by the appear -  ance of 10 suns, which scorched it. Yi stopped  the suns by shooting down nine of them.  Yao-Shih   Fo   In   Chinese   Buddhism,   the  Healing   Buddha,   who   received   his   powers  from the historical Buddha. He gives spiritual  medicine to the sick when they touch part of  his image, which is usually made of bronze,  though when painted it must be blue. He is  known as Yakushi Butsu in Japan, where many  early temples are dedicated to him. In Sanskrit  he is called Bhaisajyaguru.  yara   In   the   mythology   of   the   Amazonian  Indians of Brazil, a siren. The Brazilian journalist  and historian Alfonso Arinhos de Melo Franco  (1868–1916) tells a tale,   The Yara,   of how a   yara  seduced a youth. Jaguarari is depicted as a hand -  some hunter loved by all of the villagers. One  day he discovered a   yara   at Taruman Point, and  from then on he was completely under her spell.  He told his mother of the vision, and she warned  him never to go back to the enchanted spot.  Jaguarari, however, could not resist. He was seen  in his canoe “rushing straight toward the sun, as  though it would hurl itself into a flaming disk.  And beside the young warrior, clasping him like  a vine, stood a white figure, of a beautiful form,  in a halo of silvery light that contrasted with the  ruddy gleam of the setting sun, and crowned the  long loose golden tresses.”  Yarilo   (Erilo) (ardent, passionate)   In Slavic  mythology, god of springtime and fecundity  who was worshipped in some Slavic countries  as late as the 19th century with various rites to  ensure crop fertility.  In legends from White Russia, Yarilo is pic -  tured as young and handsome, riding a white  horse and dressed in a white cloak. On his head  he wears a crown of wild flowers, and he holds  a bunch of wheat ears in his hand. His feet are  always bare. In one of his rites, White Russian  peasants dressed the most beautiful maiden in  Yarilo’s costume and put her on a white horse  while they sang:  Where he sets his foot,  The corn grows in mountains;  Wherever he glances,  The grain flourishes.  Yarilo’s death in the fall after the harvest  was   celebrated   by   lamentations   and   sexual  Emperor Yao  1046   Yao

=== 페이지 1064 ===
excess. His straw idol was carried in procession,  burned, and the ashes scattered on the fields,  after which the peasants would again begin  feasting and drinking. These rites were con -  demned by the Russian Orthodox Church.  yarrow   A   pungent   herb.   In   Chinese   folk  belief, yarrow sticks, also called milfoil, are  used in the   I Ching   as a form of divination.  In   European   folklore,   yarrow   is   associated  with sexual love. Sometimes called the herb of  Venus, it was used in the 17th century as a cure  for gonorrhea. In English folklore, yarrow was  used by lovesick maidens to determine who  their future lovers would be. They would pluck  the flower from a young man’s grave, repeating  at the same time:  Yarrow, sweet yarrow, the first that I have  found,  In the name of Jesus Christ I pluck it  from the ground  As Jesus loved sweet Mary and took her  for His dear,  So in a dream this night I hope my true  love to appear  The chant was supposed to give the yar -  row power to bring a vision of the future. But  if one dreamed of yarrow, it meant losing the  object of one’s affection. If one was married and  dreamed of the plant, it signified death in the  family. Yarrow is often found on gravesites and  thus is often associated with death. It also was  used against witchcraft during the Christian  Middle Ages.  See also:   venus  Yashodhara   (fifth century   b.c.e. )   In Buddhist  legend, wife of Gautama, the Buddha, and mother  of Rahula. Gautama won the hand of Yashodhara  in a contest of arms when he was 16. When he  left her and his young son to seek enlightenment,  she went into despair. When they met years later  she still showed her deep love for her husband.  Their son Rahula became a Buddhist monk.  Many of the   Jatakas,   or   Folktales of the Former  Lives of the Buddha,   are addressed to Rahula. He  is said to have died before his father. Some texts  give the name Gopa as the wife of the Buddha.  See also:   buddha, the  Yatawm and Yatai   In Indo-Chinese mythol -  ogy, two creator beings, neither spirits nor  humans, who were responsible for the creation  of animals and people.  Hkun Hsang Long, the creator spirit, or  god, looked down from his heavenly home,  Mong Hsang, and saw Yatawm and Yatai. He  dropped   down   to   them   two   hwe-sampi,   or  gourds. The two ate the gourds and planted the  seeds, which grew to gourds as large as hills,  containing animals and people. Yatawm was  then called Tahsang Kahsi (great all-powerful)  and Yatai was called Ya-hsang Ka-hsi (great  mother all-powerful).  The myth is not clear as to whether Hkun  Hsang Long wanted the two to eat the gourds,  because when they ate them, death and sexual  passion came into the world. However, the myth  may have Christian overtones from missionaries  who first recorded it for Western readers.  See also:   adam and eve  Yayati   In   Hindu   mythology,   a   king   who  exchanged his old age for the youth of his  son Puru.  Yayati, fifth king of the Chandra (lunar)  race, was invited by Indra, the storm god, to  visit heaven. Matali, the charioteer of Indra,  came to fetch Yayati. On their way they held  a philosophical discussion that made a deep  impression on Yayati. When he returned to  earth he administered his kingdom with such  virtue that his subjects were exempt from decay  and death. Yama, the god of the dead, com -  plained to Indra. Then Indra sent Kama, god  of love, and his daughter, Asruvindumati, to  arouse passion in Yayati. The king fell in love  with Asruvindumati, but he was too old for the  young girl. Yayati asked his son Puru, after his  other four sons had refused, to exchange his  Yayati   1047

=== 페이지 1065 ===
youth for Yayati’s old age. Puru agreed. After  a   while   Asruvindumati   persuaded   Yayati   to  return to heaven. Before the king left, however,  he returned the youth to his son Puru.  In a variant account found in some texts  Yayati was given a celestial chariot by Indra.  With the chariot Yayati conquered the earth  and even subdued the gods. The chariot then  passed on to his successors but was finally lost.  In the variant legend, Yayati, after restoring his  youth to Puru, retired to the forest with his wife  and gave himself up to mortification. Abstaining  from food, Yayati died and ascended to heaven.  He and his five sons are called Rajarshis.  See also:   chandra; kama; indra  Yazatas   In   Persian   mythology,   the   “ador -  able” or “worshipful ones,” ranking after the  good   god,   Ahura   Mazda,   and   the   Amesha  Spentas, the seven “immortal bounteous ones.”  The Yazatas are innumerable and guard the  sun, moon, and stars; they also are personifica -  tions of abstract ideas such as blessing, truth,  and peace.  See also:   ahura mazda; amesha spentas  Yedo Go Nin Otoko   (Edo Go Nin Otoko)  In Japanese legend, five men who stole from  the rich and gave to the poor. They all dressed  alike,   and   though   mischievous,   they   gained  the support of people because of their aid.  They usually are portrayed with flutes and big  tobacco pouches, either talking to one another  or competing in a physical contest.  Yeh   Ching   (karmic   mirror)   In   Chinese  mythology, a magic mirror that shows the dead  the form into which they are to be reborn.  Yen Kung   (Duke Yen)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, a deified mortal worshipped as the god of  sailors.  Yen-Mo wang   In Chinese mythology, ruler  of the fifth hell of Ti Yü, the underworld.  See also:   ti yü  Yesod   (Yasodiel)   (foundation)   In   Jewish  folklore, angel invoked by Moses to bring death  to the firstborn males in Egypt. In the biblical  account (Exod. 12:29), however, it says Yahweh  “smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt.”  In Jewish folklore naming an angel or other  spirit as a substitute for Yahweh, God himself,  in earthly affairs is quite common; it is done to  maintain God’s distance from humankind.  See also:   yahweh  yew   An evergreen tree planted by the Druids  near their temples. In European folklore, it  was planted in graveyards to prevent witches  from destroying churches and gravestones and  sometimes buried with the dead to ward off  demons. Because the yew is poisonous, hunt -  ing bows made from the tree are said to be  doubly fatal, killing both with its poison and as  a weapon. Shakespeare’s   Hamlet   speaks of the  juice of the cursed hebona, believed to be the  yew. Christopher Marlowe, in his play   The Jew  of Malta,   calls the yew the “juice of hebon.”  See also:   druids  Yggdrasill   (Igdrasil) (Ygg’s steed, the horse  of the terrible one)   In Norse mythology, the  great cosmic ash tree, also known as the world  tree. The   Prose Edda   describes Yggdrasill as  “the greatest and best of all trees. Its branches  spread over the whole world, and even reach  above heaven. It has three roots very wide  asunder. One of them extends to the Aesir  (the gods), another to the Frost-giants in that  very place where was formerly Ginnungagap  (the   primeval   abyss),   and   the   third   stands  over Nifelheim (the land of dark, cold and  mist),   and   under   this   root,   which   is   con -  stantly gnawed by Nidhogg (the dragon), is  Hvergelmir.” On top of the Yggdrasill an eagle  perches. Between its eyes sits a hawk called  Vedurfolnir.   The   squirrel   named   Ratatosk  runs up and down Yggdrasill, trying to cause  strife between the eagle and Nidhogg. Four  harts, Dainn, Dvalinn, Duneyr, and Durathor,  run across its branches and bite its buds. The  1048   Yazatas

=== 페이지 1066 ===
Norns sit under the Urdar-fount, which is  located at the third root of the tree. Here also  the gods sit in judgment. Every day they ride  up on horseback over Bifrost. Every day the  Norns draw water from the Urdar-fount and  sprinkle the ash, so its branches may not rot or  wither. This water is so holy that everything  placed in the Urdar-fount becomes as white  as the film within an eggshell. The dew that  falls from it is honey-dew. Two fowls are fed in  the Urdar-fount. They are called swans, and  from them are descended all of the birds of  this species.  Adam of Bremen describes a pagan temple  at Uppsala around 1070. There is a large yew  tree in front of the temple, and sacrificial vic -  tims are hung from its branches. The connec -  tion to Yggdrasill seems clear: a large tree at  the center of a religious site. The concept of a  “world tree” was widespread in Eurasia and was  seen as the path into the world of spirits.  See   also:   aesir;   dvalin;   ginnungagap;  nidhogg; nifelheim; norns; odin;   prose edda ;  ratatosk; urd  Yima   (Yam)   In   Persian   mythology,   divine  hero, who in some texts is considered the first  man, the first king, and the founder of civiliza -  tion. As the first man he is also the first of the  dead, over whom he rules in a region of bliss.  Yima becomes the culture hero Jemshid in the  Persian epic poem   Shah Namah   by Firdusi.  In the sacred book Avesta two myths, some -  what contradictory, are told of Yima. Once  Ahura Mazda, the good creator god, asked  Yima to receive his law from him and bring it  to men as a prophet. “I was not born, I was not  taught to be the preacher and the bearer of thy  law,” Yima told Ahura Mazda.  Then the god said to Yima: “Since thou  wantest not to be a preacher and the bearer  of my law, then make thou my worlds thrive,  make my worlds increase: undertake thou to  nourish, to rule, and to watch over my world.”  Yima did as Ahura Mazda asked, and the  world thrived, “six hundred winters passed  away,   and   the   earth   was   replenished   with  flocks and herds, with men and dogs and birds  and with red blazing fires, and there was no  more room for the flocks, herds, and men.”  Then   Yima   made   the   “earth   grow   larger  by   two-thirds”   to   accommodate   the   new  inhabitants.  The second myth narrated in the Avesta  tells how Ahura Mazda told Yima that a winter  was to come that would destroy every living  creature. Yima built a   vara,   an underground  cavern,   and   like   Noah   in   the   biblical   tale,  brought “the seed of men and women that  are the tallest, best, and the most beautiful” to  inhabit his kingdom. “Gather together the seed  of all kinds of animals that are the finest on this  earth; gather together the seed of all plants and  fruits that are the tallest and sweetest. In pairs  bring them to your retreat.” Again, the people  and animals prospered.  The end of Yima is not exactly known. He  was condemned by the gods, though the reason  is not clear, and killed either by his brother,  Spityura, who cut him in two, or by the demon  Azhi Dahaka, in the form of a tyrant king, Zah -  hak, the evil king of Babylon in the Persian epic  Shah Namah   by Firdusi.  See   also:   ahura   mazda;   avesta;   azhi  dahaka; jemshid; noah;   shah namah ; zahhak  Yin and Yang   (dark side and sunny side of a  hill)   In Chinese mythology and philosophy, a  symbol expressing conflict and resolution. Yin  represents the female (negative, dark, the earth)  and Yang the male (positive, light, heaven).  Heaven, the source of weather, was the realm  of Shang-Ti, who was to be offered sacrifices  made by the Son of Heaven. This perception of  natural forces, weather in particular, may stem  from agricultural experiences in the loess coun -  try of the Yangtze River. Sudden rains could  dramatically alter the landscape. Man had to  learn to live with continuing changes. It was  viewed as attunement with the pre-established  harmony of   li,   the universal pattern.  See also:   li; shang-ti  Yin and Yang   1049

=== 페이지 1067 ===
Ymir   (doubled)   In   Norse   mythology,   pri -  meval giant formed from fire and ice, slain by  the Aesir gods Odin, Vili, and Ve. From Ymir’s  body these three gods formed the earth, accord -  ing to the   Prose Edda : “From Ymir’s blood they  made the seas and waters; from his flesh the  land; from his bones the mountains; and his  teeth and jaws, together with some bits of bro -  ken bones, served them to make the stones and  pebbles.” Ymir’s skull formed the heavens that  the gods placed over the earth, with a dwarf at  each corner to hold it up. Ymir’s brains were  tossed in the air to form the clouds.  Ymir is the embodiment of the hermaph -  roditic procreator. It is interesting to note that  to create the universe the gods had to kill a  maternal relative. The pagan skalds had many  kennings for Ymir; the sky was called “Ymir’s  skull,” and “Ymir’s blood” referred to the sea.  See also:   aesir; audhumla; bestla; ken -  ning; odin;   prose edda  yoga   (yoking, harnessing, union)   In Hindu-  ism, various methods of mental and physical  self-control or discipline, used for various ends.  In the Bhagavad-Gita, part of the Hindu epic  poem   The Mahabharata,   the term is widely  used to mean a method or discipline leading  to salvation.  See also:   bhagavad-gita;   mahabharata, the  yoni   (womb,   source)   In   Hinduism,   the  female organ of generation, connected with  the great goddess Devi. The   yoni   is worshipped  along with the   lingam,   the phallus of the god  Shiva, who is the husband of Devi.  See also:   devi; lingam; shiva  Yryn-Ajy-Tojon   In   Siberian   mythology,  white creator god worshipped by the Yakuts,  a Turkish people living near the Lena River.  He lives in the Tree of Life, in whose roots the  mother goddess Ajyset lives.  When Yryn-Ajy-Tojon saw a bladder float -  ing on the waters, he asked what it was. The  bladder replied that it was Satan, who lived on  the earth under the water. “If there is really  earth under the water, then bring me a piece  of it,” Yryn-Ajy-Tojon said to Satan, who then  dove under the water and returned with a piece  of   earth.   It   was   blessed   by   Yryn-Ajy-Tojon  and placed on the waters, where he sat on it.  Angry, Satan tried to drown Yryn-Ajy-Tojon by  stretching out the earth, but the more he pulled,  the larger it got, until it covered the waters.  In addition to containing elements found in  other Siberian myths relating to the origin of  the earth and the devil, this myth, by its use of  Satan as the name of the devil, suggests that it  is a Christian reworking of a pagan myth.  See also:   ajyset; earth diver; satan  Yua   In Eskimo mythology (Unalit peoples  at Bering Strait), spirit of elements, places, and  things.  Yuga   (age)   In Hindu mythology, an age of  the world, of which there are commonly said  to be four:  Krita Yuga, the first age, when men were  righteous and in harmony with life. It lasted for  a period of 1,728,000 years.  Treta, the second age, when people began  to decline in righteousness.  Dvapar, the third age, when more evil came  into the world.  Kali, the present age, which began in 3102  b.c.e.   and is to last 430,000 years. It will see  hunger, fear, and calamities increase.  Each Yuga is shorter than the one before  it, and all four make a Maha-Yuga. A thou -  sand Maha-Yugas make a Kalpa, which is a  day and night for the Hindu god Brahma, or  4,320,000,000 human years. The term   Mahy -  pralaya   means total destruction of the world  and universe, when men and gods are annihi -  lated. Other terms for the age of the world are  Jahanaka, Kahita, and Sanhara.  See also:   brahma  Yü   Huang   In   Chinese   Taoist   mythology,  the Jade Emperor, supreme god; symbol of  1050   Ymir

=== 페이지 1068 ===
jade, or absolute purity, who lives in the high -  est heaven, Ta-lo. He replaced the earlier god,  Yüan-Shih T’ien-Tsun, the “heavenly honored  one of origin and beginning,” who now lives on  Yü Shan (the Jade Mountain).  Yuki Onna   (snow woman)   In Japanese folk -  lore, a female ghost who appears in snow -  storms,   causing   travelers   to   fall   asleep   and  freeze to death.  Yule   (wheel)   A   pre-Christian   Norse   feast  held anywhere from mid-November to mid-  January,   in   which   sacrifices   were   made   to  the Aesir gods. Some Yule customs became  absorbed into Christmas customs in the north -  ern countries when the people were converted  to Christianity. The most familiar custom was  the Yule log burned during the Middle Ages,  recalling the pagan custom of lighting a log in  honor of Thor with a fragment of the previous  year’s log. Christians believed that the preser -  vation of the last year’s Yule log was effective in  preventing fire in the house. Yule is now a term  sometimes used for Christmas.  See also:   aesir; thor  Yul-lha   (rural   deity)   In   Tibetan   folklore,  lesser gods and demons of the countryside.  They are ranked as follows:  Lha. Gods, all male, white in color, and  generally genial.  Tsan. Goblins or ghosts, all male, red in  color. These are vindictive ghosts of lamas,  discontented priests, and haunt temples.  bDub. Devils, all male, black in color. They  are the ghosts of the persecutors of Lamaism  and cannot be appeased without the sacrifice  of a pig.  gZah. Planets, piebald in color.  dMu. Bloated fiends, dark purple in color.  Srin-po. Cannibal fiends, raw-flesh colored  and bloodthirsty.  rGyal-po. King fiends, the wealth-masters,  white   in   color,   the   spirits   of   apotheosized  heroes.  Ma-mo. Mother she-devils, black colored,  the disease mistresses. They are sometimes the  wives of the demons.  Yü Shih   (rain master)   In Chinese mythol -  ogy, the rain god, portrayed in yellow scale  armor and wearing a blue hat, standing on a  cloud and pouring rain onto the earth from a  watering can.  Yves, St.   (Ives, Ivo, Ybus, Helory) (archer)  (1253–1303)   In Christian legend, patron of  lawyers, judges, and notaries. Feast, 19 May.  Yves was born near Treguier in Brittany and  became an ecclesiastical and civil lawyer. As an  official of the diocese of Rennes he was noted  for his protection of orphans, his defense of the  poor, and his impartiality in the administration  of justice. In Brittany he is still referred to as  “the poor man’s advocate.” Dom Lobineau, in  Yü Huang, the Jade Emperor  Yves, St.   1051

=== 페이지 1069 ===
his   Lives of the Saints of Britain,   recounts the leg -  end of St. Yves, the widow, and two swindlers.  Two swindlers deposited with a widow a valise  they said contained 200 gold pistoles. They told  her not to give the valise to anyone unless both  of them were present. After six days one of the  men came for the bag and carried it off. The  other swindler then brought the widow before  a judge and demanded either the bag or the 200  pistoles. The widow was about to lose the case  when St. Yves interfered and said his client could  not produce the valise unless   both   of the claim -  ants were present. The plaintiff, therefore, must  bring his fellow into court before the valise could  be given up. The judge at once saw the justice  of this and ordered the plaintiff to produce his  companion. He did not and confessed that it was  a hoax to get money out of the woman.  Another   legend,   from   the   same   source,  tells how St. Yves multiplied trees. The lord  of Rosternen gave St. Yves permission to fell  some oak trees in a forest for building the  cathedral of Treguier. The steward complained  that St. Yves had made “too great havoc with  the trees.” When the lord was taken to see the  “devastation,” he found two oaks growing for  every one that had been felled.  Still another legend from the same source  tells of St. Yves saying mass when a dove, all  shining, lighted on his head, then flew to the  high altar and almost immediately disappeared.  Another day, as the saint was dining with a  large number of the poor, a dove entered the  room, fluttered around him, then lighted on  his head. It did not fly away until St. Yves gave  it a blessing.  St.   Yves   is   often   shown   surrounded   by  supplicants holding parchment and pointing  upward. Sometimes he is shown in a lawyer’s  gown holding a book.  1052   Yves, St.

=== 페이지 1070 ===
6  Z  Za’afiel   (wrath   of   God)   In   Jewish   and  Christian folklore, angel in control of hur -  ricanes and storms. In some accounts he is a  good angel, in others, an evil one.  Zacchaeus   (pure)   (first   century)   In   the  Bible, N.T., the rich publican at Jericho who  was visited by Jesus. According to medieval  French legend, he arrived in Gaul to preach  the Gospel. His feast in the Coptic Church is  20 April.  Zacharias   (Yahweh   remembers)   In   the  Bible, name of two characters: one in the New  Testament, the father of John the Baptist (Luke  1:15); the other, the Old Testament prophet  Zechariah, spelled Zacharias in Greek. In the  Koran (sura 6) he is called Zakariya, the father  of John the Baptist, and is reckoned, along with  John, Jesus, and Elias, among the righteous.  In the New Testament (Luke 1:5–25) Zach -  arias is a priest married to Elisabeth, who was  a kinswoman of the Virgin Mary. While he was  performing his priestly duties in the temple,  he had a vision in which the archangel Gabriel  promised him and his barren wife a son. When  old Zacharias doubted the angel’s word, he was  made speechless. Eight days after the child was  born Zacharias went to the temple to have the  child circumcised. After making a sign that  the boy was to be called John, not Zacharias,  his speech was restored. In Islamic legend,  after John the Baptist’s death Zakariya escapes  into a tree that opens for him. The hem of  his garment remains outside the tree and is  spotted by the demon Iblis, who betrays him.  The tree is sawn down and with it Zakariya.  Jesus refers to “Zacharias son of Barachias” in  Zacharias and the angel  1053

=== 페이지 1071 ===
Matthew (23:35) as having been slain “between  the temple and the altar.” Some biblical com -  mentators on the text think Jesus is referring to  the father of John the Baptist, but the majority  believe Jesus is referring to the Old Testament  prophet, Zechariah, though Jewish tradition  says the prophet died a natural death. The  Jewish, Christian, and Islamic legends evidence  influence from one another.  See also:   gabriel; iblis; john the baptist,  st.;   koran, the ; virgin mary; zacharias, st.  Zacharias,   St.   (Yahweh   has   remembered)  (Second century)   In Christian legend, sec -  ond bishop of Vienne, a disciple of St. Peter,  according to Christian tradition. A medieval  legend says he brought to Vienne the table -  cloth on which Jesus instituted the Last Supper.  Feast, 26 May.  Zadkiel   (Zidekiel, Zadakiel, Zedekiel, Tzadkie)  (the   righteousness   of   God)   In   Jewish   and  Christian folklore, archangel who held back  the knife when Abraham was about to sacrifice  his son Isaac (Gen. 22:11–19), though he is not  named directly in the biblical text. In another  Jewish legend Zadkiel is credited with leading  the Israelites out of Egypt. The name Zadkiel  was adopted as a pseudonym by the astrologer  Richard James Morrison, a naval lieutenant  and author of the   Prophetic Almanac,   which was  commonly called Zadkiel’s Almanac.  See also:   abraham; isaac  Zadok   (just)   In the Bible, O.T., a descen -  dant of Aaron and a high priest of Israel in the  time of King David and Solomon. He served  as   high   priest   jointly   with   Abiathar   during  most of David’s reign (1 Chron. 24:3, 2 Sam.  15:24–29; 1 Kings 1:38–39). Handel’s choral  work   Zadok the Priest,   in praise of the king, is  sung at English coronations.  See also:   david; solomon  Zag-Muk   (Zagmuku)   Babylonian New Year  festival held in spring in honor of the great  hero god Marduk, who on that day decided the  fate of men for the coming year. One of the  rites associated with the festival was the “visit”  paid by the god Nabu, a son of Marduk, to his  father. An image of Nabu was carried in a ship  to the temple of Marduk and then returned to  its own shrine.  See also:   marduk; nabu  Zagzagel   (divine splendor)   In Jewish folk -  lore,   angel   who   assisted   God,   along   with  Michael and Gabriel, in burying Moses. He is  not mentioned in the Old Testament, but arises  from folklore.  See also:   gabriel; michael; moses  Zahhak   (Zohak,   Zuhak,   Dahhak)   In   the  Persian epic poem   Shah Namah,   by Firdusi, an  evil king who is defeated by the hero Faridun.  King Zahhak had dedicated his life to Iblis,  the devil. Out of the king’s head came two  serpents that had to be fed by human flesh.  Human sacrifices of young men and women  were made to satisfy the serpents. The hero  Faridun challenged the king but was stopped  from killing him by a supernatural voice that  said:  Slay him not now—his time is not yet  come,  His punishment must be prolonged awhile;  And as he cannot now survive the wound,  Bind him with heavy chains—convey him  straight  Upon the mountain, there within a cave,  Deep, dark, and horrible—with none to  sooth  His sufferings, let the murderer lingering  die (James Atkinson translation).  The character of Zahhak is based on the  archdemon in Persian mythology, Azhi Dahaka,  who was defeated by the hero Traetaona and  also imprisoned in a mountain.  See   also:   azhi dahaka; faridun;   shah  namah  1054   Zacharias, St.

=== 페이지 1072 ===
Zaka   In Haitian voodoo, a good loa (deified  spirit of the dead), guardian of farmers and the  destitute. Offerings of corn, rum, and oil-soaked  bread are made to him. He is symbolized by an  ear of corn with a hat on it and a pin stuck in it.  See also:   loa  Zakiqoxol   (Zaquicoxol) (he who strikes from  flint)   In the mythology of the Cakchiquels, a  branch of the Mayan Indians, demon spirit of  fire and the forest. When the heroes Gagavitz  and Zactecauh met Zakiqoxol, as told in   The  Annals of the Cakchiquels   (16th century), they  at first wanted to kill the demon. But instead  they gave him a breastplate and sandals, all  blood-colored, as a gift, and “he departed and  descended to the foot of the mountain.” In  Cakchiquel folklore, the demon is called “the  little man of the woods.”  See also:   gagavitz  Zal   In the Persian epic poem   Shah Namah,   by  Firdusi, father of the hero Rustum. When Zal  was born, he was perfect in all aspects, except  one: he had white hair. When Sam, his father,  was told that his child possessed this defect, he  exposed the babe on a distant mountain. The  mysterious and magical bird Simurgh heard the  cries of the child and took him to his nest. A  voice came from heaven telling Simurgh:  To thee this mortal I resign,  Protected by the power divine.  Let him thy fostering kindness share,  Nourish him with paternal care  (James Atkinson translation).  Warned in a dream, Sam repented what he  had done to his infant son and went in search  of Zal. When he finally found Zal, who had  now grown to early manhood, he confessed  his crime and asked for forgiveness. Zal then  forgave his father.  One of the most interesting episodes in  Shah Namah   relating to Zal is his wooing of  Rudabeh (Rudaba, Raduvah), who eventually  became his wife and the mother of the great  hero of the epic, Rustum.  One   day   while   journeying   through   his  father’s domains Zal came to Kabul, where he  stayed with Mihrab, who paid Sam an annual  tribute to secure the safety of his state. On the  arrival of Zal, Mihrab went out of the city to  greet him. The young hero entertained Mihrab  and soon discovered that Mihrab had a beauti -  ful daughter:  Her name was Rudabeh; screen from  public view  Her countenance is brilliant as the sun;  From head to foot her lovely form is fair  As polished ivory .   .   .  (James Atkinson translation).  After some tribulations Rudabeh and Zal  were married. The astrologers consulted about  the marriage replied that “this virtuous couple  will have a son like unto a war-elephant, a stoutly  girded son who will submit all man to the might  of his sword and raise the king’s throne above  the clouds.   .   .   .” The name of the son was Rus -  tum, the great hero of the epic poem.  See also:   rustum;   shah namah ; simurgh  Zamzam   (abundant water)   In Islam, sacred  well   at   Mecca,   also   called   Ishmael’s   Well.  According to Islamic tradition the archangel  Gabriel opened the well to Hagar when her  Ishmael   was   dying   of   thirst   in   the   desert.  Before leaving Mecca, pilgrims often dip their  burial clothes in the well.  See also:   gabriel; ishmael  Zao Gongen   In Japanese mythology, patron  god of Mount Kimpu in Japan and special  guardian of the Buddhist Shugendo sect, a  group of wandering mountain ascetics, whose  adherents are called   yamabushi   (those who sleep  on mountains).  Zarathustra   (Zardusht,   Zartust,   Zoroaster)  (sixth   century   b.c.e. )   Prophet,   mystic,   and  Zarathustra   1055

=== 페이지 1073 ===
reformer of Persian religion; also known as  Zoroaster, the Greek rendering of his name.  Numerous legends surround the life of the  historical Zarathustra. According to them, his  birth, as with other saviors in world mythology,  was foretold. His mother, only 15, bore him  after having contact with the sacred Haoma  plant. As soon as the child was born, he could  converse and spoke with the good god, Ahura  Mazda. At the age of 30 Zarathustra had his  first vision. After his religious experience he  began to teach the Good Religion (one of the  names given by his followers to his doctrine). It  is also called Mazdaism in some texts. At first no  one would accept his teachings. He taught that  Ahura Mazda, the good god who had created  the world, was in conflict with Ahriman, the evil  spirit. In the end, however, the forces of Ahura  Mazda would be victorious and evil destroyed.  Zarathustra brought his doctrine to the court of  King Vishtaspa, who, though impressed by the  prophet, still let his own priests jail Zarathustra  on charges of being a necromancer.  One day the king’s favorite black horse drew  up all of its legs into its body so that it could not  move. Zarathustra offered to heal the animal if  four conditions were granted him: first, that the  king should accept his teaching; second, that the  great warlike prince, Isfandiyar, fight to spread  Zarathustra’s doctrine; third, that the queen also  accept his doctrine; and fourth, the names of the  men who plotted against him should be revealed.  As each condition was fulfilled, one of the horse’s  legs was restored, and it could walk again.  Tradition records that Zarathustra was mur -  dered while he knelt praying. After his death his  doctrine was modified by the magi (priests of  his religion), who restored some of the earlier  beliefs in the old gods and spirits. This form of  Zoroastrianism, as it is called, became the faith  of Persia and lasted until the Islamic conquest  of the country in the seventh century   c.e.   There  are few remaining believers—those called Gue -  bers (Ghebers) by the Islamics, meaning “unbe -  lievers” in the faith of Islam, and some in India  called Paris (Parsees) from the ancient name of  Persia. The doctrine of Zarathustra, however,  had   a   great   impact   on   Judaism,   Mithraism,  Gnosticism, Manichaeism, and Christianity.  For the ancient Greeks, Zarathustra was a  great magician and philosopher. Plato is said to  have wanted to be able to study with the magi.  Socrates is believed to have been taught by one.  The magi who visited the infant Christ as the  “three wise men” of tradition are perhaps the  most celebrated.  The English poet Wordsworth, in the fourth  book of his long narrative poem   The Excursion,  wrote on the ancient Persian religion:  .   .   . the Persian,—zealos to reject  Altar and Image, and the inclusive walls  And roofs of temples built by human  hands,—  The loftiest heights ascending, from their  tops,  With myrtle-wreathed Tiara on his brows,  Presented sacrifice to Moon and Stars,  And to the winds and mother Elements,  And the whole circle of the Heavens, for  him  A sensitive existence and a God.  Lord Byron, in the third book of his melan -  cholic poem   Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage,   wrote  also of the Persian belief:  Not vainly did the early Persian make  His altar the high places and the peak  Of earth-o’er-gazing mountains, and thus  take  A fit and unwalled temple, there to seek  The Spirit, in whose honour shrines are  weak,  Upreared of human hands. Come and  compare  Columns and idol-dwellings, Goth or  Greek,  With Nature’s realms of worship, earth  and air,  Nor fix on fond abodes to circumscribe  thy prayer.  1056   Zarathustra

=== 페이지 1074 ===
A lesser poet than Wordsworth and Byron,  the Anglo-Irish Thomas Moore, in his metri -  cal tale   The Fire-Worshippers,   part of his lon -  ger   Lalia Rookh,   has a Gueber chief say to an  Islamic:  “Yes, I am of that impious race,  Those slaves of Fire, that morn and even  Hail their creator’s dwelling place  Among the living lights of heaven;  Yes! I am of that outcast crew  To Iran and to Vengeance true,  Who curse the hour your Arabs came  To desecrate our shrines of flame,  And swear before God’s burning eye  To break our country’s chains or die.”  A brilliant and more interesting description  is found in Shelley’s poetic drama   Prometheus  Unbound :  .   .   . Ere Babylon was dust,  The Magus Zoroaster, my dead child,  Met his own image walking in the garden.  That apparition, sole of men, he saw.  For know there are two worlds of life  and death:  One that which thou beholdest; but  the other  Is underneath the grave, where do inhabit  The shadows of all forms that think  and live,  Till death unite them and they part no  more.  This theme was referred to and expanded by  Charles Williams in his novel   Descent into Hell.  The   Frenchman   Voltaire,   however,   was  not at all enthusiastic about Zarathustra. He  says in his   Ignorant Philosopher   that Zarathustra  “established ridiculous superstitions” though  the prophet’s “morals prove him not corrupt.”  In Nietzsche’s   Thus Spake Zarathustra   the  poet uses Zarathustra for his own mouthpiece.  Nietzsche stresses in the complex work that  life is the will to power. A man must overcome  the beliefs and conventions of common men.  He must become an “overman,” or as it is usu -  ally translated, “superman” (Übermensch). In  one section of the work Zarathustra reaches a  town where a group of people are watching a  tightrope walker. He says to them: “I teach you  the overman. Man is something that shall be  overcome.” He then proceeds to explain that  salvation is found in this world and not the  next world. His teachings are rejected. Since he  cannot teach the masses, he decides to gather  together some few disciples. Nietzsche’s work  is the basis for the long orchestral work   Also  Sprach Zarathustra   by Richard Strauss.  See also:   ahriman; ahura mazda; haoma;  magi  Zaremaya   In Persian mythology, spring that  produced oil or butter to feed the souls in  paradise.  Zatik   In Armenian mythology, a vegetation  god. The Armenian translation of the Bible calls  the Jewish passover “the festival of Zatik,” and  Armenian Christians call Easter the Festival of  Zatik. This has led some scholars to believe that  Zatik was a vegetation god, whose resurrection  began at the winter solstice and was completed  in the spring. Similarly, St. Bede derives the  English name for the feast of the resurrection  from a pagan spring goddess, Eostre.  See also:   bede the venerable, st.  zduh   (zduhacz) (soul)   In Slavic mythology, a  term for the soul of either a person or an animal.  The   zduh   could leave the body during sleep and  engage in a battle with other souls. If it lost the  battle, the sleeper would die. Aside from the  zduhs   of people and animals, there were   zduhs   of  the land, which caused drought, and a   zduh   of the  sea, which caused rain and storms. Another term  for the soul in Slavic mythology is   vjedogonja.  Zemi   In the mythology of the Indians of the  Antilles at the time of Columbus, cult images  of animals or humans, worshipped as gods.  Zemi   1057

=== 페이지 1075 ===
They were invoked to “send rain or sunshine,”  according to Peter Martyr d’Anghera in his  book   De Orbe Nova   (1516), describing customs  and beliefs of the Indians.  Zeno, St.   (Died 371)   In Christian legend,  bishop of Verona, invoked for children learning  to speak and walk. Feast, 12 April.  The bishop is noted for his kindness to  children.   The Life of St. Zeno, Bishop of Verona  by Peter and Jerome Ballerini tells how the  daughter of Emperor Gallianus was grievously  tormented by the devil and was healed by the  saint. One day when she was nearly suffocating  she cried out, “I can never be relieved of this  torture but by Zeno.” The devil added, “And  I will never quit my abode here unless com -  pelled to do so by Zeno.” The emperor sent  for the saint, who arrived quickly and entered  the room where the young girl lay. As soon as  he entered the devil cried out, “Zeno, you are  come to drive me out, for here I cannot abide  in the presence of thy holiness.” The saint  replied, “In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ  I command thee to quit the body of this young  maiden.” The devil came out and said as he  left, “Good-bye, Zeno, I am off to Verona, and  there you will find me on your return.”  St.   Gregory   the   Great,   in   his   Dialogues,  explains Zeno’s connection with the Adige River  (Etsch). One day when the clergy and people of  Verona were assembled to celebrate the festival  of St. Zeno (he was now dead and sainted), the  River Adige overflowed its banks, but though the  doors of the church “were wide open, the waters  were afraid to enter.” Instead they formed a wall  around the church. Zeno’s symbol is usually a  fish, stemming from his legend.  See also:   gregory the great, st.  Zenobio, St.   (force of Zeus)   (fourth century)  In   Christian   legend,   bishop   of   Florence;  invoked against headache. Feast, 25 May.  The legendary life of the saint is found in  several short biographies, all written after the  11th century and included in the   Acta Sancto -  rum,   a collection of saints’ lives. According to  the accounts, Zenobio was born of a noble fam -  ily. His father, Lucian, and his mother, Sophia,  were both pagans. The boy, however, was con -  verted to Christianity and eventually succeeded  in converting his parents to the new faith. He  lived in Rome as a deacon and was also secretary  to Pope Damascus I. He was sent to Florence  when two factions, the Catholics and the Ari -  ans (a rival Christian group), were fighting to  have one of their sect chosen bishop of the city.  When Zenobio arrived, both sides agreed that  he should be the bishop and elected him to the  office. He led a life of poverty and self-denial,  keeping the two religious factions at peace.  Many   legends   center   around   the   saint.  Once he made a journey to a city in the Apen -  nines to consecrate a church. On the occasion  his friend, St. Ambrose, sent messengers to  him with gifts of precious relics. But it hap -  pened that the chief of the messengers, in  passing through the gorge in the mountains,  fell with his mule down a steep precipice and  was crushed to death. His companions brought  his mutilated body and laid it at the feet of St.  Zenobio. The bishop prayed over the corpse,  and the man was restored to life.  Another legend says a Frenchwoman, while  on a pilgrimage to Rome, stopped off at Flor -  ence and left her son in the care of the saint. The  boy died the day the woman returned, but when  the child was laid at the feet of St. Zenobio, the  prayers of the saint restored the child to life. The  saint placed him in the arms of his mother.  Still another medieval legend tells how a  little child, straying from his mother in the  streets of Florence, was run over and trampled  by two oxen. Again, the good bishop prayed  over the body of the dead child, and the child  was restored to life.  Miracles were performed by Zenobio not  only while he lived but even after his death.  When the remains of St. Zenobio were car -  ried through the city to be deposited under the  high altar of the cathedral, the people crowded  around to kiss him and touch his garments.  1058   Zeno, St.

=== 페이지 1076 ===
In passing through the Piazza del Duomo the  body of the saint was thrown against the trunk  of a withered elm standing near the spot. Sud -  denly the tree, which had been dead for years,  burst into fresh leaves.  St. Zenobio’s life has been a favorite subject  for Christian artists. Lorenzo Ghiberti designed  a bronze sarcophagus to house the relics of the  saint. The bas-reliefs portray the miracle of the  restoration of the son of the Frenchwoman, the  restoration of the messenger, and the story of  the trampled child. Botticelli painted   The Three  Miracles of Saint Zenobio.   Masaccio also painted  the raising of the dead child. The legendary  connection of invoking St. Zenobio against  headaches, however, is lost.  See also:   ambrose, st.  Zephyrus   In   Greek   mythology,   the   West  Wind, son of Astraeus and Eos; married to  Chloris; father of Carpus, god of fruit; also  father of Balius and Xanthus, immortal horses  of Achilles, by Podarge; called Favionius by the  Romans and also known as Caurus. Zephyrus also  loved Hyacinthus, a young male, but Hyacinthus  loved Apollo. The angry West Wind caused  Hyacinthus’s   death   by   blowing   the   quoit   of  Apollo against Hyacinthus’s head. Frequent use  is made of Zephyrus in literature. Ovid’s   Heroides  (14.39)   cites   the   wind,   and   Chaucer,   in   the  Prologue to   The Canterbury Tales,   opens with  When Zephirus eek with his swete breeth  Enspired hath in every holt and heeth  The tendre croppes .   .   .  In   The Bard   Thomas Gray writes:  Fair laughs the Morn and soft the Zephyr  blows,  While proudly riding o’er the azure realm  In gallant rim the gilded vessel goes;  Youth on the prow, and Pleasure at the  helm.  Zephyrus appears in Botticelli’s paintings,  breathing life into Flora in   Primavera   and waft -  ing Venus to the shore in   The Birth of Venus.  In ancient art Zephyrus is often portrayed as  partly unclothed, carrying flowers in the folds  of his robe.  See also:   achilles; apollo; chaucer; hya -  cinthus; xanthus  Zetes   (searcher)   In Greek mythology, winged  twin of Calais; brother of Chione and Cleopatra;  son of Thracian king Boreas and Orithyia. Zetes  and his brother Calais took part in the Argonaut  expedition and fought the Harpies in Bithynia.  See   also:   argonauts;   boreas;   calais;  harpies  Zeus   (bright sky)   In Greek mythology, sky  god, the chief of the 12 Olympian gods; son of  Cronus and Rhea; brother of Hades, Hestia,  Demeter,   Hera,   and   Poseidon;   married   to  Hera; called Jupiter or Jove by the Romans.  Cronus had been told by an oracle of Gaea  that he would be overthrown by one of his  children, even as he had overthrown his father,  Uranus. To prevent this, Cronus swallowed his  children as soon as they were born. When the  time came for Zeus’s birth, Rhea was deter -  mined to save her child. She went to Mount  Lycaeus in Arcadia to a place called Cretea and  gave birth to Zeus. When Cronus asked Rhea  for the child so that he could swallow him, she  gave her husband a stone wrapped in swaddling  clothes. The god swallowed the stone at once.  Rhea then washed the real Zeus in the Neda  River and entrusted him to Gaea to be given to  the nymphs of Crete to be raised. Zephyrus  Zeus   1059

=== 페이지 1077 ===
Zeus was raised by the nymphs Adrastea  and Ida, daughters of Melisseus. The infant  god was fed on milk and honey by the goat  Amalthea.   To   drown   out   the   infant’s   cries  and prevent them from reaching the ears of  Cronus, the Curetes (people of Crete) crashed  their shields.  When Zeus grew up, he went to see Metis,  who, some accounts say, was his first wife. Metis  was a female Titan who advised Zeus how to  force Cronus to disgorge Zeus’s brothers and sis -  ters. Metis gave Zeus a potion to give to Cronus.  Zeus disguised himself as a cupbearer and gave  the drink to his father. Hestia, Demeter, Hera,  Hades, Poseidon, and the stone were vomited  out. The stone was later set up at Delphi as the  Omphalos (navel), or center, of the earth.  Zeus, with his brothers Hades and Posei -  don, then made war on his father and the  Titans. The war, however, dragged on for 10  years with no end in sight. Then Zeus was told  by Gaea that if he released the Cyclopes and  the Hecatonchires from their prison in Tarta -  rus, he would defeat Cronus. Zeus descended  to Tartarus, killed the woman jailer Campe,  and freed the Cyclopes and Hecatonchires.  The Cyclopes forged a thunderbolt for Zeus,  a magic cap that made Hades invisible, and a  trident for Poseidon. The gods, thus armed,  defeated Cronus and the Titans. All of the  defeated except Atlas were sent to Tartarus to  be guarded by the Hecatonchires. Zeus, Hades,  and Poseidon then cast lots into a helmet to  decide what sections of the universe each god  was to rule. Zeus drew the heavens, Hades the  underworld, and Poseidon the sea. The earth  and Olympus were the common property of all  three. Zeus was chosen head.  The marriages of Zeus in Greek mythology  are numerous. As the husband of Mnemosyne  (memory) he was the father of the Muses;  Themis (justice) bore him the Horae, the sea -  sons of the year; and Eurynome (far ruler) was  the mother of the Charities or Graces. Zeus is  the only Greek god who is the father of other  Olympian gods. On Mount Cyllene Zeus was  honored as the husband of Maia and the father  of Hermes. At Dodona his wife was Dione, but  in time his sister Hera was recognized as his  legitimate wife and queen. Aside from numer -  ous wives, Zeus also had many love affairs with  both women and men. Robert Herrick, the  English poet, using the Latin name Jove for  Zeus, wrote in   To the Maids to Walk Abroad :  But fables we’ll relate, how Jove  Put on all shapes to get a love,  As now a satyr, then a swan,  A bull then, and now a man.  Zeus had many roles in Greek mythology,  He was the sky god, the god of storms and  rain, the mighty thunderer, and master of the  lightning. The mountains were his seat. As the  god of storms, Zeus was also the god of battles,  being the father of Ares and Athena, both war  deities. The decision about which side would  win in battle was believed to reside with Zeus.  The statue of the Olympian Zeus by Phidias  carried the Nike (victory) in its right hand.  Though the Greeks made the children of Zeus  Zeus  1060   Zeus

=== 페이지 1078 ===
war deities, Zeus was honored as the patron  of physical contests. The olive branch of Zeus  was awarded to the swift, strong, and skillful  at Olympia. In many places in Greece, games  were celebrated in honor of Zeus or found  expression in the worship of his sons Apollo,  Hermes, and Heracles.  As the sky god Zeus revealed his will with  signs in the heavens. Prophecy and inspira -  tion belonged to Zeus and his son Apollo. In  Aeschylus’s   Prometheus Bound,   Prometheus is  made to say:  .   .   . tokens by the way And flight of taloned  birds I clearly marked Those on the right  propitious to mankind, And those sinister,  and what form of life They each main -  tain, and what their enmities Each with  the other, and their loves and friendships  (Translated by Plumptre)  The priest Calchas saw a serpent devour -  ing a sparrow with nine young and knew it  was a sign from Zeus that Troy would fall. At  Dodona, one of Zeus’s great shrines, doves or  priestesses made the will of Zeus known. A  lofty oak, sacred to Zeus, who sent rain for the  farmers, was the home of these doves. The rus -  tling of its leaves revealed the presence of the  god. In Athens a spatter of rain or a thunder -  bolt was a sign that the gods were not looking  down with favor, so public assemblies were at  once adjourned. Spenser, in the   Faerie Queene  (book 1), using the Latin name Jove for Zeus  wrote: “And angry Jove an hideous storme of  raine/ Did poure .   .   .” Pope, in   The Rape of  the Lock,   also using Zeus’s Latin name Jove,  wrote: “Jove’s thunder roars, heaven trembles  all around.”  Aside from his role in the heavens, Zeus  was also worshipped as a patron of agriculture.  Offerings of fruit were brought to Zeus Polieus,  the guardian of the city on the Acropolis. In the  variable weather of spring, both public and  secret rites were performed to render Zeus  propitious. In summer, when heat and drought  threatened   the   crops,   the   Athenians   again  joined in the worship of Zeus.  The concept of Zeus changed over the many  centuries during which the god was worshipped.  In Homer’s   Iliad   and   Odyssey   the rule of Zeus  over gods and men is set forth. Zeus was always  the protector of the state. On the Acropolis at  Athens was an altar to Zeus, the protector of the  city. The earliest altar of the state was the altar  in the king’s palace, the altar on which the king  sacrificed in behalf of his people. Two kings of  Sparta claimed descent from Zeus. At Athens  sacrifices were offered to him as the god of  phratry, or clan, when children were enrolled in  its lists. Though he was not faithful to his wife,  he was regarded as the god of the family. He  was one of the gods who presided over mar -  riage, along with his wife, Hera.  Zeus was invoked in oaths. The oath breaker  feared the vengeance of Zeus. Earlier Zeus had  declared that oaths of the gods must be sworn  by the waters of the Styx because the Styx and  her children had come to his aid in the war  against his father and the Titans.  An elevated concept of Zeus’s divine role  is found in the   Agamemnon   of Aeschylus. The  chorus gives an account of the god’s nature:  Zeus   1061  Cronus and Rhea, father and mother of Zeus

=== 페이지 1079 ===
Zeus—it to The Unknown  That name of many names seem good—  Zeus, upon Thee I call.  thro’ the mind’s every road  I passed, but vain are all,  Save that which names thee Zeus, the  Highest One,  Were it but mine to cast away the load,  The weary load, that weighs my spirit  down.  He that was Lord of old,  In full-blown pride of place and valor bold,  Hath fallen and is gone, even as an old  tale told!  And he that next held sway,  By stronger grasp o’erthrown  Hath pass’d away!  And whoso now shall bid the triumph-  chant arise  To Zeus, and Zeus alone,  He shall be found the truly wise.  ’Tis Zeus alone who shows the perfect way  Of knowledge: He hath ruled,  Men shall learn wisdom, by affliction  schooled (Translation by Morshead).  The eagle and the oak were sacred to Zeus.  The eagle, together with the scepter and the  lightning, is one of his most frequently encoun -  tered attributes. The most famous statue of  Zeus in the ancient world was the one Phidias  executed for the temple of Olympia. About 40  feet high, it was made of gold and ivory and  portrayed the god seated. The bearded head  was   ornamented   with   olive   leaves,   and   the  upper part of the statue’s body was made of  ivory; the lower part was wrapped in a golden  mantle falling from the hips to the feet, which  wore golden sandals and rested on a footstool.  Lying beside Zeus were golden lions. Zeus’s  right hand bore Nike; the left hand bore the  scepter surmounted by an eagle.  Zeus had many epithets, among them Cro -  nides (son of Cronus); Coccygius (cuckoo), the  bird whose form he assumed when he raped  Hera; Aegichus (aegis bearing); Anchesmius  (of Anchesmus); Apesantius (of Apesas); Aph -  esius (releaser); Capotas (reliever); Catharsius  (purifier);   Chthonius   (of   the   underworld);  Clarius (of lots); Ctesius (grain god); Eleu -  therius (god of freedom); Herceius (of the  courtyard);   Homagyrius   (assembler);   Lech -  eates (in childbed); Leucaeus (of the white  poplar); Lycaeus (wolfish); Mechaneus (con -  triver); Megistus (almighty); Meilichius (gra -  cious); Moeragetes (guide of Fate); Hypaistus  (most high); Panhellenius (god of the Greeks);  Patrous (paternal); Philius (friendly); Phyx -  ius (god of flight); Semaleus (sign-giving);  Soter (savior); Sthenius (strong); Teleius (full  grown);   and   Tropaean   (he   who   turns   to  flight).  See also:   hera; jove; olympian gods  ziggurat   (zikkurat, ziqqurat) (pinnacle)   Mes -  opotamian   stepped   pyramid   usually   built   of  brick and forming part of any temple complex.  Because   Babylonians   believed   that   the   gods  lived on mountains, they designed the ziggurat  in imitation of a natural mountain. The great  ziggurat at Babylon was called Etemenaki (the  house of the foundation of heaven and earth),  and the ziggurat at Nippur was called house of  oracle. The Tower of Babel in the Bible (Gen.  11:1–9), as well as Jacob’s dream (Gen. 28:11–  19), probably stem from the ziggurat; it was the  link between heaven and earth, as the tower and  Jacob’s ladder were in the Hebrew legends.  See also:   jacob; tower of babel  zin   In African mythology (Songhai of the  upper Niger), water spirits. One day a zin, in  the form of a snake, sat by its lake sunning  itself. When a lovely girl passed by, he imme -  diately fell in love with her. As dowry, her  parents asked the zin for possession of the lake.  He agreed but on occasion visited his palace at  the bottom of the lake. When he grew old and  died, his son became the guardian of the lake. It  angers the zin when people enter the lake with  weapons made of iron.  See also:   faran; snake  1062   ziggurat

=== 페이지 1080 ===
Zita,   St.   (Sitha,   Citha)   (to   seek)   (13th  century)   In Christian legend, patron saint  of   domestic   servants;   venerated   at   Lucca,  Italy. Feast, 27 April.  Zita became a servant at the age of 12 and  continued to be employed by the same family  for some 48 years. One saying ascribed to the  saint is “A servant is not good if she is not indus -  trious: Work-shy piety in people of our position  is sham piety.” However, the traditional saying  seems to have been invented by her masters.  One legend of the saint in the   Vita Sancto -  rum,   a collection of saints’ lives, tells how Zita  stayed too long at church and did not have time  to make breakfast for her master. Zita rushed  home and found to her joy that an angel had  done the work for her. The bread was baked  and ready to eat.  Another   legend   tells   how   Zita,   touched  with pity for the half-starved who came to her  master’s house during a severe famine, gave  them the beans from her master’s granary with -  out asking his permission. Not long afterward  the master, Pagano, was taking stock and went  to measure the beans. Zita was frightened and  hid herself behind her mistress. The master  found the measure correct. Zita thanked God  for restoring what had been taken. Zita is por -  trayed in Christian art as a serving maid.  Ziusudra   (Sisouthros, Ziudsuddu)   In Near  Eastern mythology (Sumerian), hero of the  flood myth, which is fragmentary and has in  part   been   reconstructed.   Told   of   a   coming  deluge, Ziusudra wrote down the history and  traditions of his people and placed the tablets  at Sippar, the city of the sun god. Then, taking  his wife, daughter, and a pilot, he embarked in  an ark, which eventually landed on the top of  a mountain as the waters of the flood receded.  When the four disembarked from the ark, they  offered sacrifices to the gods. The gods Anu  and Enlil gave Ziusudra “breath eternal like  that of a god” as a reward for his faithfulness.  Many of the incidents in the Sumerian version  of the flood myth are also found in the Hebrew  narrative of the flood in the Old Testament  (Gen. 6–9).  See also:   anu; enlil; noah  Zoa   In African mythology (Songhai of the  upper Niger), primal ancestor, wise man, and  protector.  Word was passed to Zoa that if a pregnant  woman was fed sheep’s liver, it was actually the  unborn child who ate it. He opened the stomach  of a pregnant slave and found this to be true. Zoa  performed many other astonishing acts, such  as tending a wounded lioness and then going  hunting with her. He predicted that a particular  bird would suddenly die and be cooked on a  fire that would light by itself. All things hap -  pened just as Zoa said they would. His son was  greatly saddened when the bird died, and so Zoa  commanded the earth to open, predicting that  his son would become the next chief. Zoa told  the people what offerings should be brought to  him in times of trouble and which people were  unworthy to visit his shrine. Then he entered the  hole in the earth that he had previously ordered  to open, and the ground closed around him.  Four trees grew from that spot. They are taken  to represent the four points of the compass.  Zodiac   (circle   of   animals   or   relating   to  animals)   Imaginary zone (or belt) in the heav -  ens, extending about eight degrees to each side  of the ecliptic, which the sun traverses every  year. The signs of the Zodiac were named after  deities and animals whose shape or outline could  be seen in the heavens. The names are derived  from Greek and Roman mythology. The 12  signs of the Zodiac were often combined in the  Middle Ages, in psalters and books of hours,  with the 12 months, or labors of the month.  The signs with their attributes and the date  when the sun enters their path are  1.   Aries,   the   Ram   (Golden   Fleece),   21  March.  2.   Taurus, the Bull (Europa’s mount), 20  April.  Zodiac   1063

=== 페이지 1081 ===
3.   Gemini, the Twins (Castor and Pollux),  21 May.  4.   Cancer, the Crab (Heracles’ tormen -  tor), 22 June.  5.   Leo, the Lion (Nemean Lion), 23 July.  6.   Virgo, the Virgin, 23 August.  7.   Libra, the Scales, 23 September.  8.   Scorpio, the Scorpion (Orion’s torturer),  24 October.  9.   Sagittarius,   the   Archer   (Chiron),   22  November.  10.   Capricorn,   the   Goat   (Amalthea),   22  December.  11.   Aquarius,   the   Water   Bearer   (Gany -  mede), 20 January.  12.   Pisces, the Fish (Aphrodite and Eros),  19 February.  Frequent references are made to the Zodiac  in European literature throughout the ages.  Chaucer wrote a treatise on the   Astrolabe,  which describes the workings of a mechani -  cal device for indicating the movement of the  planets. In the Prologue to   The Canterbury  Tales,   he makes reference to the fact that “the  younge sonne / Hath in the Rame his halve  cours yronne.” In   The Faerie Queene   Spenser  gives an elaborate description of the months  with figures from the Zodiac. Milton (book  10) also makes use of the Zodiac in   Paradise  Lost.  See   also:   aquarius; cancer; capricorn;  chaucer; virgo  Zohar,   The   (splendor)   Medieval   Jewish  kabalistic   work,   written   partly   in   Hebrew,  partly in Aramaic. It is credited to Moses de  León, a 13th-century Castilian cabalist, who  died in 1305. It deals with the divine names  of God, the soul, the Torah, the Messiah, and  other Jewish topics in a mystical way, incor -  porating many mythical motifs. Its basic belief  is that there is a correspondence between the  upper world and the lower world—that is,  what happens in heaven can affect earth and  vice versa.  zombie   In Haitian voodoo, a person who  has been “murdered” by poison and brought  back to life by a   bocor,   a voodoo witch doctor.  It is also used as a generic term for the spirits  of the dead.  In Haiti a zombie is one of the most feared  of   beings,   and   his   or   her   existence   is   not  doubted. Haiti’s criminal code says: “Also shall  be qualified as attempted murder the employ -  ment .   .   . against any person of substances,  which, without causing actual death, produce a  lethargic coma more or less prolonged. If, after  the administering of such substances, the per -  son has been buried, the act shall be considered  murder no matter what result follows.”  An article in   Time   magazine (17 October  1983) quoted Harvard botanist E. Wade Davis,  who has made a study of zombies: “Zombism  exists and is a societal phenomenon that can be  explained logically.” The toxin used to poison  victims, tetrodotoxin, comes from the puffer  fish and is coma-inducing. The effect of the  poison depends on the dosage. Too much will  actually kill. The zombie must be exhumed  about eight hours after burial, or he or she will  suffocate. When the victim is awakened, he  or she is fed a paste made of sweet potato and  datura, a hallucinogenic plant. Often the victim  is then used for slave labor.  Zombies are found not only in Haiti but also  in movies. Victor Halperin’s   White Zombie   was  the first sound film on the subject. The term  zombie   was also applied to a strong rum drink  said to leave the drinker apparently lifeless with  intoxication. In a Ritz Brothers film the three  comedians walk up to a bartender and order  “Three zombies.” “I can see that,” the bar -  tender replies, “but what’ll you have to drink?”  Zophiel   (Jophiel, Iophiel, Iofiel, Jofiel) (the  beauty of God)   In Jewish and Christian folk -  lore, archangel who drove Adam and Eve from  the Garden of Eden. The account in Genesis  (3:23–24), however, nowhere mentions an angel  but “the Lord God” himself as responsible for  casting the two out of the garden. In Genesis  1064   Zohar, The

=== 페이지 1082 ===
cherubim and “a flaming sword which turned  every way” guarded the way to the Tree of Life.  Cherubim were griffinlike monsters from Near  Eastern mythology who were later made into  angels in Jewish and Christian mythology. In  Paradise Lost   (book 6:535) Milton calls Zophiel  “of cherubim the swiftest wing,” and the angel’s  name   forms   part   of   a   book-length   poem,  Zophiel, or, The Bride of Seven   by the American  Maria Gowen Brooks. The poem was quite  influential in England, though not as popular  in America. Charles Lamb, impressed by the  work, could not believe “a woman capable of  anything so great!”  See also:   adam and eve; cherubim; griffin  Zotz   In the mythology of the Zotzil Indians  who   live   in   the   Chiapas,   a   bat   god.   One  Mayan carving in Copán portrays the hero god  Kukulcán battling the Zotz. The term   zotz   also  was used by the Mayans for a 20-day period of  their calendar.  Zu   In Near Eastern mythology (Babylonian),  storm god in the form of a massive bird who  stole the tablets of fate.  In his greed for power and dominion Zu  determined to steal from the great god Bel  (variant:   Enlil)   the   tablets   of   fate,   or   des -  tiny. The tablets gave their possessor supreme  power over men and gods.  “I will possess the tablets,” Zu said to him -  self, “and all things will be under my power  and subject to me. The spirits of heaven will  bow before me and the oracles of the gods will  be under my command. I shall wear the crown,  symbol of sovereignty, and the robe, symbol of  godhead. I shall rule over men and gods.”  Zu entered the great hall of Bel, where  he awaited the coming of the day. As Bel was  making the day appear, Zu snatched the tablets  from Bel’s hands and flew off. He then hid  himself in his mountain. Zu’s act caused con -  sternation among the gods. Anu, the sky god,  called an assembly of the gods to find a means  of capturing Zu. As he calls on one of the gods  to come forth, the text of the myth breaks off.  Scholars suggest the gods Shamash, Rimmon,  Marduk, or Lugulbanda as possible heroes in  the end of the myth.  See also:   anu; bel; lugulbanda; marduk;  rimmon; shamash  zupay   In Spanish South American mythol -  ogy, a forest demon who often seduces women.  A   zupay   can take the form of a handsome young  man or a satyr. He appears in Ricardo Rojas’s  short story “The Incubus.”  Zurvan   (Akarana, Zarvan, Zervan, Zrvan)   In  Persian mythology, god of time-space, father  of the good god, Ahura Mazda, and his evil  brother, Ahriman. Zurvan appears as the main  god in Zurvanism, an offshoot of Zoroastrian  belief. One of the main beliefs of Zurvanism  Zurvan  Zurvan   1065

=== 페이지 1083 ===
was that the universe was not an act of God  but an evolutionary development of formless  primeval matter, infinite time and space, or  Zurvan. This is opposed to Zoroastrian belief  in a good creator god, Ahura Mazda, a life  after death, and a moral order in which there  is reward and punishment. In one Zoroastrian  book, the   Bundahishn,   Zurvan is called Zarman,  “the demon who makes decrepit, whom they  call old age.” Zurvan also appears as a god in  Mithraism, where the image of the lion-headed  figure with signs of the zodiac on his body is  believed to represent the god. Some scholars,  however, identify the statue as that of Ahriman.  See also:   ahriman; ahura mazda; mithras;  zarathustra  1066   Zurvan

=== 페이지 1084 ===
a nnotated bibliogra P hy  6  Any bibliography that attempts to list studies  dealing with myth and legend must be viewed  as selective. This annotated bibliography is no  exception. Since the first publication of the  Facts On File Encyclopedia of World Mythology and  Legend   in 1988, as well as the revised edition in  2004, numerous new dictionaries, handbooks  and encyclopedias have appeared in print, in the  United States and abroad. Many of these new  works have been added to the annotated bibliog -  raphy of this revised version. Only a few works  in other languages have been included, even  though these collections represent major con -  tributions to the study of myth, legend, folktale,  and fable. However, such works, particularly  in German, French, and Italian, do frequently  appear in the bibliographies of the works cited  here, and the reader is encouraged to consult  them for even more sources. In addition to these  old and new sources, the standard and helpful  indexes of folk tales and motifs are now found in  this bibliography in a separate section entitled  Tale-Type and Motif Indexes. Two other new  sections have also been added, on German and  Austrian, and Asian mythology and folklore.  Finally, this edition contains for the first time a  selective list of useful online resources.  The reader is also encouraged to consult  the annually published and quarterly updated  online database of the   Modern Language Associa -  tion International Bibliography,   which has always  listed a broad range of folklore studies, includ -  ing myth and legend and other narrative forms.  In the bibliography below, works are grouped  according to category, beginning with general  references and proceeding to more specialized  groupings according to geographical, cultural,  and ethnic divisions.  General Reference Works  on Mythology, Legend,  Folklore, and Religion  Aldrich,   Keith   (ed.   and   trans.),   Apollodorus:   The  Library   of   Greek   Mythology ;   Coronado   Press,  1975. A relatively modern translation suing a  newer text than Frazer (see below), and explana -  tory notes unencumbered by special theories.  Ann, Martha, and Dorothy Myers Imel,   Goddesses  in World Mythology ; ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara,  Denver, and Oxford (England), 1993. A compre -  hensive guide to the goddesses of the world, cov -  ering 30,000 years of goddess worship. Includes  a general index.  Ashliman, D.L.,   Folk and Fairy Tales. A Handbook ;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2004. One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Ashliman, D.L.,   Fairy Lore. A Handbook ; (Green -  wood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood Press,  Westport, Conn., and London, 2005. One of  the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Ballou, Robert (ed.),   The Bible of the World ; The  Viking Press, New York, 1939. Excellent anthol -  ogy, though some of the translations are stilted,  of the major religious texts that form so much a  part of world mythology. Notes. Index.  Barber, Richard,   A Companion to World Mythology ;  Delacorte Press, New York, 1979. An A-to-Z  listing, with illustrations by Pauline Baynes on  every page. Contains maps, Index of Topics, and  Index of Places.  1067

=== 페이지 1085 ===
Bartra, Roger,   Wild Men in the Looking Glass: The  Mythic Origins of European Otherness ; University  of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, 1994. Contains  bibliography and index.  Beard, Mary, John North, and Simon Price,   Religions  of Rome ; 2 vols.; Cambridge University Press,  1998.   A   landmark   and   comprehensive   study  of Roman religions, with a separate volume of  source material.  Ben-Amos, Dan,   Folklore Genres ; University of Texas  Press, Austin, 1976. Excellent studies of the  various genres of folklore, narrative, and music,  in particular.  Bendix, Regina,   In Search of Authenticity. The Forma -  tion of Folklore Studies ; University of Wisconsin  Press, Madison, 1997. The most authoritative  study of the concept of what is and what is not  folklore. Contains extensive bibliography and a  good index.  Bremmer, Jan N.,   Greek Religion.   Greece & Rome;  New Surveys in the Classics, No. 24. Oxford  University Press, 1994. Excellent short intro -  duction to scholarly treatment of Greek religion;  includes discussion of the place of mythology  within that context.  Brown, Mary Ellen, and Bruce A. Rosenberg,   Ency -  clopedia of Folklore and Literature ; ABC-CLIO,  Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England),  1998. This work is devoted exclusively to folk -  lore and folklorists and the relationship to pri -  mary literary sources. There are helpful cross  references in the text as well as a general index.  Brunvand, Jan Harold,   Encyclopedia of Urban Legends ;  ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford  (England), 2001. An exhaustive compilation of  contemporary urban legends from around the  world. All entries are cross-referenced and each  entry includes a brief source reference. The  general bibliography suggests further readings.  Illustrations and materials on the Internet are  also included.  Bulfinch, Thomas, “Bulfinch’s Mythology”; Thomas  Y. Crowell, New York, 1970. An edition contain -  ing   The Age of Fable   (1855), about Greek and  Roman mythology, mainly based on Ovid and  Vergil,   The Age of Chivalry   (1858), dealing with  medieval legends, and   Legends of Charlemagne  (1863). One of the most popular 19th-century  retellings of mythology, leaving out any refer -  ence to sexual matters. This particular edition  has a helpful dictionary and index. Numerous  other editions of “Bulfinch’s Mythology” are  offered by other publishers.  Burkert,   Walter,   Ancient   Mystery   Cults.   Harvard  University Press, 1987. Comprehensive, com -  parative analysis of mystery religions of Greece  and Rome, including Dionysus, Demeter, and  Mithras, with emphasis on the original sources.  Campbell, Joseph,   The Hero with a Thousand Faces ;  Pantheon Books, New York, [1949] 1968. Now  classic study of the subject. Index.  Canney, Maurice A.,   An Encyclopedia of Religions ; G.  Routledge & Sons, Ltd., London, 1921; reissued  by Gale Research Company, Detroit, 1970. A  one-volume work mainly concerned with Chris -  tianity, though some of the entries on other  religions are of use. No index.  Cavendish, Richard (ed.),   Legends of the World ; Orbis  Publishing, London, 1982. Dictionary, divided  into group sections, such as Hindu, etc., writ -  ten by various authors. Comparative Survey of  World Legends. Bibliography.  ———,   Man, Myth, & Magic: An Illustrated Encyclope -  dia of the Supernatural ; Marshall Cavendish Corp.  New York, 1970. A fully illustrated encyclopedia  in 24 thin volumes with some excellent articles on  mythology. The major problem with the work is its  emphasis on occult matters that have little bearing  on mythology or folklore. Bibliography. Index.  Clements, William M.,   The Greenwood Encyclopedia of  World Folklore and Folklife.   Volumes I–IV; West -  port, Conn., and London, Greenwood Press,  2006. Four volume work with worldwide cover -  age. Excellent source for Bibliography; contains  an extensive Index.  Christiansen, Reidar,   The Migratory Legends ; Arno,  New York, [1958] 1977. Theoretical study of the  diffusion of legends.  Cocchiara,   Giuseppe.   The   History   of   Folklore   in  Europe ; Institute for the Study of Human Issues,  Philadelphia, 1981. Originally written in Ital -  ian; good historical study of the discipline of  folklore.  Cooper, J. C.,   An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Traditional  Symbols ; Thames and Hudson, London, 1978. A  heavily illustrated guide covering a wide spec -  trum of symbols. Bibliography.  Cotterell, Arthur,   A Dictionary of World Mythology ;  Perigee Books, published by G. P. Putnam’s  Sons, New York, 1979. A short, well-written,  illustrated dictionary, done in group sections.  Selected reading list and good index.  1068   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1086 ===
Annotated Bibliography   1069  Daniel, Howard,   Encyclopedia of Themes and Subjects  in Painting ; Harry N. Abrams, Inc., New York,  1971. An A-to-Z listing covering mythologi -  cal (Greek and Roman), biblical (Christian),  historical, allegorical, and topical subjects in  western art.  Dégh, Linda,   Legend and Belief: Dialectics of a Folklore  Genre ; Indiana University Press, Bloomington,  2001. Devoted completely to legends and their  closely   associated   beliefs.   Good   bibliography  and index.  Doty,   William   G.,   Myth:   A   Handbook ;   (Green -  wood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood Press,  Westport, Conn., and London, 2004. One of  the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Eliot,   Alexander,   Joseph   Campbell,   and   Mircea  Eliade,   The Universal Myths, Heroes, Gods, Trick -  sters and Others ; revised edition; New American  Library, New York, 1990.  Ellis Davidson, H. R. E. (ed.),   The Hero in Tradition and  Folklore ; The Folklore Society, London, 1984.  Elsie, Robert, A.,   A Dictionary of Albanian Religion,  Mythology,   and   Folk   Culture ;   Hurst,   London,  2001. One of the few studies on Albania avail -  able in English.  Fagles, Robert (trans.),   Homer: The Iliad ; Viking  Penguin, 1990. Superb modern translation with  a splendid introduction to Homer and the epic  by Bernard Knox.  Fagles, Robert (trans.),   Homer: The Odyssey ; Viking  Penguin, 1996. Superb modern translation with  a splendid introduction to Homer and the epic  by Bernard Knox.  Feder, Lillian,   Ancient Myth in Modern Poetry ; Princ -  eton University Press, Princeton, N.J., 1971.  Classical myths in the poetry of Pound, Yeats,  Eliot, and Auden.  Fine, Gary A.,   Manufacturing Tales: Sex and Money in  Contemporary Legends ; University of Tennessee  Press, Knoxville, 1992. Treats urban legends;  good bibliography and index.  Foley, John Miles,   Teaching Oral Traditions ; Modern  Language Association, New York, 1998. Excel -  lent source for teaching of oral traditions. Each  study has its own bibliography.  Fontenrose, Joseph,   The Delphic Oracle: Its Responses  and Operations with a Catalogue of Responses ; Uni -  versity of California Press, 1978. A thorough  catalogue and sober analysis of the evidence sur -  rounding the activity of the oracle at Delphi.  Frazer, James George,   The Golden Bough: A Study in  Magic and Religion : Macmillan & Co., Ltd., Lon -  don, 1912. A massive, 13-volume work, which  is fascinating reading on many levels. Though  some of it is dated, it still forms a good basis for  the study of mythology and legend. The author  published a one-volume abridgment in 1922,  also issued by Macmillan. Good index.  Freeman, John (ed.),   Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and  Fable ; Harper & Row, Publishers, New York and  Evanston, 1963. First published in 1870, eighth  revised edition. Very brief entries, but a valuable  one-volume source.  Gaskell, G. A.   Dictionary of All Scriptures and Myths ;  The   Julian   Press,   Inc.,   New   York,   1960.   A  muddled,   misleading   dictionary   with   a   very  strong occult bias but valuable for its numerous  quotations within entries.  Gaster, Theodor H.,   The New Golden Bough: A New  Abridgment of the Classic Work by Sir James George  Frazer ;   Criterion   Books,   New   York,   1959.   A  present-day scholar takes Frazer’s work and adds  notes to bring it up to date. One of the most valu -  able editions of Frazer available. Notes. Index.  Georges,   Robert   A.,   and   Michael   Owen   Jones.  Folkloristics. An Introduction ; Indiana University  Press: Bloomington and Indianapolis. 1995. The  most complete and up-to-date study of folklore  and folklore methodologies available.  Georges, Robert A., and Michael Owen Jones,   People  Studying People: The Human Element in Fieldwork ;  University of California Press, Berkeley, 1980.  Perhaps the best work on fieldwork.  Gerndt, Helge, and Klaus Roth,   Gesamtregister der  Zeitschrift für Volkskunde ; Verlag Otto Schwartz,  Göttingen, 1995. Complete index of folklore  studies for the first 100 years of the German  Folklore Society.  Gimbutas, Mariya,   Goddesses and Gods of Old Europe:  Myths and Cult Images ; University of California  Press, Berkeley, 1982. Good source for ancient  gods and goddesses of Europe; good bibliogra -  phy and index.  Grant, Michael,   Roman Myths ; Dorset Press, [1971]  1984. The only extensive examination of Roman  tales and legends from a serious scholarly point  of view as myths within modern critical assump -  tions. Addresses both “religious” and secular  myths and legends.  Green, Thomas A. (ed.),   Folklore: An Encyclopedia of  Beliefs, Customs, Tales, Music, and Art ; ABC-CLIO,

=== 페이지 1087 ===
Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England),  1997. A two-volume work and a good source for  concepts of folklore, with extensive cross refer -  ences and a general index. The emphasis is on  North American folklore, but some items suggest  a more global approach to the topic.  Hall, James,   Dictionary of Subjects & Symbols in Art ;  Harper & Row, New York, 1974. Good, well-  written and researched, with an introduction by  Kenneth Clark. Useful for Greek, Roman, and  Christian mythology.  Hinnells, John R. (ed.),   The Facts On File Dictionary  of Religions ; Facts On File, New York, 1984. An  A-to-Z listing. Good bibliography. Index. Help -  ful for quick reference.  Hoppál,   Mihály,   Studies   on   Mythology   and   Uralic  Shamanism ; Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, 2000.  Devoted to Uralic Myths and shamanism.  Hunt, D. G. (trans.),   Georgian Folk Tales ; Merani  Publishing House, Tbilisi, 1999. One of the  only collections of folktales from Georgia in  English.  Ions,   Veronica,   The   World’s   Mythology   in   Colour ;  Hamlyn, London, 1974. Richly illustrated in  color, with an introduction by Jacquetta Hawkes,  the book makes a quick survey of its subject.  Further Reading List. Index.  Ives, Edward. D.,   The Tape-Recorded Interview, A  Manual for Fieldworkers in Folklore and Oral His -  tory ; 2nd edition, University of Tennessee Press,  Knoxville, 1995.  Jackson,   Bruce,   Fieldwork ;   University   of   Illinois  Press, Urbana, 1978. Helpful information on  conducting folklore fieldwork.  Jackson, Bruce, Michael Taft, and Harvey S. Axel -  rod,   The Centennial Index: One Hundred Years of  the Journal of American Folklore ; American Folk -  lore Society, Washington, D.C., 1988. Complete  index of folklore studies for the first 100 years of  the American Folklore Society.  Jobes, Gertrude,   Dictionary of Mythology, Folklore and  Symbols ; Scarecrow Press, New York, 1962.  Jones, Alison,   Dictionary of World Folklore ; Larousse,  New York, 1995.  Kirk, Geoffrey,   Myth: Its Meaning and Functions in  Ancient & Other Cultures ; University of California  Press, 1970. A comparative treatment of Greek  myths and legends within the context of theories  of world myths, as well as a kind of historical  survey of theory about Greek myths. Careful  attention to the impact of scholars such as Max  Mueller, B. Malinowski, and C. Lévi-Strauss.  ———,   The Nature of Greek Myths ; Penguin Books,  1974. Intended as a classroom textbook, a level-  headed and sound approach to Greek myths,  legends, and sagas.  Krohn, Kaarle.   Folklore Methodology ; translated by  Roger Welsch; University of Texas Press, Aus -  tin, 1971. Translation of the first major method -  ological study of folklore.  L’année philologique ; Paris, Société Internationale de  Bibliographie Classique, 1928–present (volume  40–present   available   on-line   by   subscription:  www:annee-philologique.com/aph/).  Leach, Maria (ed.),   Standard Dictionary of Folklore,  Mythology and Legend ; Funk & Wagnalls, New  York,   1972.   An   extensive,   one-volume   work,  written by various hands. Very wide coverage of  folklore but lacking in religion and mythology.  Leach, Marjorie,   Guide to the Gods ; ABC-CLIO,  Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England),  1992. Michael Owen Jones and Frances Cat -  termole-Tally, eds. This is an extensive listing of  gods from around the world, divided into Cos -  mological, Celestial, Atmospheric, Terrestrial,  Life/Death Cycle deities, sections on Economic  Activities, Socio-cultural Concepts, and Reli -  gion. There is also an extensive index to all of  the gods listed in the volume.  Leeming, David Adams,   The World of Myth ; Oxford  University Press, New York, 1990.  Lévi-Strauss, Claude,   The Savage Mind ; University  of   Chicago   Press,   Chicago,   1966.   Structural  study of folklore.  Lewis, James R.,   UFOs and Popular Culture: An Ency -  clopedia of Contemporary Mythology ; ABC-CLIO,  Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England),  2000. Includes religious beliefs, legends, movies,  TV shows, advertising, celebrities, Internet sites  and photos. General index.  Lewis,   James   R.,   Satanism   Today:   An   Encyclopedia  of Religion, Folklore, and Popular Culture ; ABC-  CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (Eng -  land), 2001. This encyclopedia covers popular  music and films, contemporary organized Satanic  groups,   ritual   abuse   cases,   and   practices   and  beliefs. Includes photos and illustrations, a chro -  nology, an index, appendixes, and bibliography.  MacCulloch,   John   Arnott   (general   editor),   The  Mythology of All Races ; Marshall Jones Co., 1916.  1070   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1088 ===
Reissued by Cooper Square Publisher, Inc., New  York, 1964. A 13-volume work dealing with  Greek, Roman (1), Eddic (2), Celtic, Slavic (3),  Finno-Ugric, Siberian (4), Semitic (5), Indian,  Iranian   (6),   Armenian,   African   (7),   Chinese,  Japanese (8), Oceanic (9), North American (10),  American,   Latin   (11),   Egypt,   Far   East   (12),  Index (13). Usefulness varies from volume to  volume depending on the author. Extensive bib -  liographies in each volume.  McKinzie, Michael,   Mythologies of the World: The  Illustrated Guide to Mythological Beliefs and Cus -  toms ; Facts On File, New York, 2001. A good  introductory guide book with maps, illustra -  tions, glossary and tables.  McLeish, Kenneth,   Myth: Myth and Legends of the  World Explained and Explored ; Facts On File, New  York, 1996. Extensive coverage of myths and leg -  ends from around the world. Includes woodcuts.  Mercatante, Anthony S.,   Good and Evil: Mythology  and Folklore ; Harper & Row, New York, 1978.  A short world study, dealing with the myths,  legends, and beliefs surrounding Good and Evil.  Annotated bibliography. Index.  Mieder, Wolfgang,   Proverbs: A Handbook ; (Green -  wood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood Press,  Westport, Conn., and London, 2004. One of  the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Modern Language Association International Bibli -  ography; Publications of the Modern Language  Association of America, New York, 1921–present  (available on-line by subscription: www.mla.org).  Morford, Mark P. O., and Robert J. Lenardon,  Classical   Mythology,   6th   ed.;   Addison-Wesley  Educational   Publishers   Inc.,   1999.   A   widely  used college-level textbook that includes a thor -  ough survey of the Greek and Roman gods and  heroes, with extensive source material translated  into English. Some guidance on interpretations  of myths, and treatment of the influence of clas -  sical myths on the Middle Ages and Renaissance  in art and music.  New Larousse Encyclopedia of Mythology ; Prometheus  Press, London, 1959. Does not list an editor,  though the work contains an introduction by  Robert Graves and various articles by scholars.  Some are excellent. Further Reading List. Index.  Olrik,   Axel,   “Epic   Laws   of   Folk   Narrative,”   in  Dundes, Alan,   The Study of Folklore ; pp. 129–141,  Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1965.  Seminal treatment of epic laws.  Oring, Elliott (ed.)   Folk Groups and Folklore Genres.  An Introduction ; Utah State University Press:  Logan, 1986. A series of excellent and precise  essays on the major folklore topics and interpre -  tative techniques.  ———,   Folk Groups and Folklore Genres. A Reader.  Utah State University Press: Logan, 1989. This  reader accompanies the essays in the companion  volume on the major folklore topics and inter -  pretative techniques.  Parrinder, Geoffrey,   A Dictionary of Non-Christian  Religions ; The Westminster Press, Philadelphia,  1971. A good one-volume guide for basic entries  on religion, many of which deal with mythology,  and sacred books.  ——— (ed.),   Religions of the World: From Primitive  Beliefs to Modern Faiths ; Grosset & Dunlap, New  York, 1971. Written by a variety of scholars, the  book varies in quality but on the whole is worth  reading. Heavily illustrated. Bibliography. Good  index.  Raglan, Lord,   The Hero: A Study in Tradition, Myth  and   Drama ;   Pitman,   London,   1936.   Classic  study of the hero.  Rank, Otto,   The Myth of the Birth of a Hero: A Psy -  chological Interpretation of Mythology ; translated by  F. Robbins and Smith Ely Jelliffe; R. Brunner,  New York, 1951.  Róheim, Géza,   Hungarian and Vogul Mythology ; 2nd ed.;  University of Washington Press, Seattle, 1966.  Rosenberg,   Donna,   Folklore,   Myths   and   Legends ;  NTC Publishing, Lincolnwood, Ill., 1997.  Rosenberg, Donna,   World Mythology: An Anthology  of the Great Myths and Epics ; Passport Books,  Lincolnwood, Ill., 1986. Retellings of the major  myths by often condensing the texts. Selected  bibliography. Index.  Seal,   Graham;   Encyclopedia   of   Folk   Heroes ;   ABC-  CLIO,   Santa   Barbara,   Denver,   and   Oxford  (England),   2001.   Mostly   short   entries,   with  some longer ones. Includes cross references and  suggestions for further reading. Bibliography  and general index.  Schmalzriedt, Egidius, and Hans Wilhelm Haussig,  Wörterbuch der Mythologie ; Klett-Cotta, Stutt -  gart, 2001.  Scullard, H. H.,   Festivals and Ceremonies of the Roman  Republic ; Cornell University Press, Ithaca, N.Y.,  Annotated Bibliography   1071

=== 페이지 1089 ===
1981. A complete examination of all known fes -  tivals in the pagan Roman calendar.  Thursby, Jacqueline S.,   Story: A Handbook ; (Green -  wood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood Press,  Westport, Conn., and London, 2006. One of  the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Toelken, Barre,   The Dynamics of Folklore,   2nd ed.;  Utah   State   University   Press,   Logan,   1996.  Introductory study of folklore textbook. Good  bibliography and index.  Tong, Diane,   Gypsy Folktales ; Harcourt Brace Jova -  novich, New York, 1989.  Tylor, Sir Edward Burnett,   The Origins of Culture ;  John Murray, London, 1871.  Turcan, Robert, (Antonia Nevill, trans.),   The Gods of  Ancient Rome ; Edinburgh University Press 2000.  An account of what the gods meant to Romans  from archaic times to late antiquity; includes a  study of the impact of Christianity.  Weiss, Richard,   Volkskunde der Schweiz ; Eugen Rent -  sch, Erlenbach-Zürich, 1946. The most authori -  tative study of the folklore of Switzerland.  Walker, Barbara G.,   The Woman’s Encyclopedia of  Myths and Secrets ; Harper & Row, San Francisco,  1983.   One-volume   encyclopedia   with   some  interesting entries with a very strong bias toward  the women’s movement. Bibliography.  Whittlesey, E. S.,   Symbols and Legends in Western  Art ; Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York, 1972.  An A-to-Z illustrated guide. Helpful for Greek,  Roman, and Christian mythology and legend.  Yates, Dora,   Gypsy Folk Tales ; Barnes and Noble,  New York, [1948] 1995.  Zarb, Tarcisio,   Folklore of an Island: Maltese Threshold  Customs ;   Publishers   Enterprises   Group,   San  Gwann, Malta, 1998.  Tale-Type and Motif Indexes  Included here are the standard tale type and  motif   indexes   developed   in   the   early   20th  century by Antti Aarne and later expanded by  Stith Thompson. The index numbering system  has become the standard for all of narrative  research worldwide.  Aarne, Antti, and Stith Thompson,   The Types of  the   Folktale:   A   Classification   and   Bibliography ;  Suomlinen Tiedeakatemia, Helsinki, 1987, 2nd  revision. The standard reference work for iden -  tifying and classifying of folktales by interna -  tionally   recognized   reference   numbers.   The  individual tales are listed in scholarly texts by AT  for Aarne/Thompson and by a number, e.g., 709  for Snow White. Studies of these tales can be  searched in the MLA International Bibliography  database under AT 709. Unfortunately the scope  is primarily Eurocentric.  Azzolina, David S.,   Tale Type and Motif Indexes: An  Annotated Bibliography,   Garland Folklore Bib -  liographies; Garland, New York, 1987. This is  an attempt to assess all of the many attempts to  index the type and motif indexes from around  the world, all based on the Aarne-Thompson  (AT or AaTh) system.  Baughman, Ernest W.,   Type and Motif Index of the  Folktales of England and North America ; Mouton,  The Hague, 1966.  El-Shamy, Hasan M.   Folk Traditions of the Arab  World: A Guide to Motif Classification ; Indiana  University Press, Bloomington, 1995.  Haboucha, Reginetta,   Types and Motifs of the Judeo-  Spanish Folktales ; Garland Folklore Library, Gar -  land, New York, 1992.  Hodne, Örnulf,   The Types of the Norwegian Folktale ;  Universitetsforlaget, Oslo, 1984.  Ikeda, Hiroko,   A Type and Motif Index of Japanese  Folk-Literature ; Folklore Fellows Communica -  tions No. 209, Academia Scientiarum Fennica,  Helsinki, 1971.  Jauhiainen, Marjatta,   The Type and Motif Index of  Finnish Belief Legends and Memorates ; Academia  Scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki, 1998.  Kurdovanidze, T.,   The Index of Georgian Folktale Plot  Types: Systematic Directory, According to the System  of Aarne-Thompson ; Merani Press, Tbilisi, 2000.  MacDonald, Margaret Read,   The Storyteller’s Source -  book: A Subject, Title, and Motif Index to Folklore  Collections for Children ; Gale, Detroit, 1982.  ———,   The Storyteller’s Sourcebook: A Subject, Title,  and Motif Index to Folklore Collections for Children,  1983–1999 ; Gale, Detroit, 2001.  O’Sullivan,   Sean,   and   Reidar   Christiansen,   The  Types of the Irish Folktale ; Folklore Fellows Com -  munications 188; Suomalainen Tiedeakatemia,  Helsinki, 1967.  Ting, Nai-Tung,   A Type Index of Chinese Folktales ;  Folklore   Fellows   Communications   No.   223;  Academia Scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki, 1978.  Thompson, Stith,   Motif-index of Folk-Literature; A  1072   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1090 ===
Classification of Narrative Elements in Folktales,  Ballads, Myths, Fables, Mediaeval Romances, Exem -  pla, Fabliaux, Jest-books, and Local Legends ; Indiana  University Press, Bloomington and Indianapolis,  1955–1958. Revised and enlarged edition of the  standard motif reference work for folk literature.  The six volumes include individual motifs in an  expandable code system. The last volume is the  general index to the first five volumes.  Uther, Hans-Jörg,   The Types of International Folktales:  A Classification and Bibliography Based on the Sys -  tem of Antti Aarne and Stith Thompson,   3 vols.;  FFCommunications 284–286. Finnish Academy  of Science and Letters, Helsinki, 2004. The  most recent and inclusive index of the folktales  of the world.  World Folktale  Collections  Clarkson, Atelia, and Gilbert B. Cross (eds.),   World  Folktales ; Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York,  1980. A selection of folktales with comments.  Good introduction. Appendixes covering vari -  ous aspects of the folktale. Select bibliography.  Cole, Joanna (ed.),   Best-Loved Folktales of the World ;  Doubleday and Company, Inc., Garden City,  N.Y., 1982. A popular collection of tales arranged  according to country. Introduction. Index of cat -  egories of tales.  Dégh, Linda (ed.),   Folktales of Hungary ; translated  by Judit Halász; University of Chicago Press,  Chicago, 1965. One of the volumes in the series  Folktales of the World   under the editorship of  Richard M. Dorson. The present collection con -  tains extensive notes.Index of Motifs and Index  of Tale Types. Bibliography. General index.  Foster, James R. (ed.),   The World’s Great Folktales ;  Harper & Brothers, New York, 1953. A collec -  tion arranged according to types of tales. Intro -  duction. Notes.  Sideman, Belle Becker (ed.),   The World’s Best Fairy  Tales ; The Reader’s Digest Association, Pleas -  antville, N.Y., 1967. A collection of some of the  world’s best known folktales from a variety of  sources.  Thompson, Stith,   The Folktale ; Holt, Rinehart and  Winston,   New   York,   1946.   The   now   classic  study   of   the   folktale   throughout   the   world.  Introduction. In Appendix B: Principal Collec -  tions of Folktales. Index.  ———,   One   Hundred   Favorite   Folktales ;   Indiana  University Press, Bloomington, 1968. A collec -  tion of tales from around the world arranged by  cultural area.  Fable Collections and  Reference Works  Aesop, Fables from ; translated by Ennis Rees; Oxford  University Press, New York, 1966. Verse ver -  sions of many of the favorite fables derived  from a variety of sources. Introduction. Index  of titles.  Aesop,   The   Fables   of ;   edited   by   Joseph   Jacobs;  Schocken Books, New York, 1966; reissue of  1894 edition. The fables retold by Jacobs. Notes  on sources. Index.  Aesop,   Fables   of ;   translated   by   S.   A.   Handford;  Penguin Books, New York, 1954. An excellent  collection, except the translator insists on using  titles not at all familiar to the reader. Introduc -  tion. Notes.  Bidpai,   Kalila and Dimna: Selected Fables ; retold by  Ramsay Wood; Alfred A. Knopf, New York,  1980. Retelling of classic fables, many of which  appear in later Aesopic fables. Based on Sanskrit  versions. Introduction by Doris Lessing.  Barius, Valerius,   Aesop’s Fables ; translated by Denison  B. Hull; The University of Chicago Press, Chi -  cago, 1960. A verse translation of one of the most  famous ancient versions of Aesop. Notes. Index.  Jacobs, Joseph (ed.),   The Fables of Aesop as First  Printed by William Caxton in 1484 ; Burt Frank -  lin, New York, 1970; reprint of 1889 edition. A  study of the history of the Aesopic fable. Intro -  duction. Synopsis of Parallels. Index.  Kennerly,   Karen   (ed.),   Hesitant   Wolf   &   Scrupu -  lous Fox: Fables Selected from World Literature ;  Random   House,   New   York,   1973.   A   varied  collection of fables from around the world. Bio -  graphical notes on the fabulists. Index.  Komroff, Manuel (ed.),   The Great Fables ; Tudor  Publishing Co., New York, 1928. A massive  collection of Aesopic fables ranging the entire  world. No index.  La Fontaine,   The Fables ; translated by Elizur Wright;  G. Bell and Sons, Ltd., London, 1917; reissue of  1841 edition. A complete edition of all of the  fables. Introduction. Brief notes.  ———,   The Fables ; translated by Marianne Moore;  The Viking Press, New York, 1952. A transla -  Annotated Bibliography   1073

=== 페이지 1091 ===
tion by a major American poet that is often  quite good.  ———,   Selected Fables ; translated by James Michie;  The Viking Press, New York, 1971. A selection  of some of the best-known fables in verse. Intro -  duction by Geoffrey Grigson.  Montejo, Victor,   The Bird Who Cleans the World and  Other Mayan Fables ; Curbstone Press, Williman -  tic, Conn., 1992. Small selection of Mayan tales.  The Panchatantra,   translated by Arthur W. Ryder;  The   University   of   Chicago   Press,   Chicago,  1925. A classic English translation of a classic  Sanskrit text of animal fables.  Perry, Ben Edwin (ed. and trans.),   Babrius and Pha -  edrus: Fables ; The Loeb Classical Library, 1965.  A collection of fables in Greek by Babrius and  in Latin by Phaedrus with English translation.  Introduction. Notes.  Shapiro, Norman R. (trans.),   Fables from Old French:  Aesop’s Beasts and Bumpkins ; Wesleyan University  Press, Middletown, Conn., 1982. A collection  of Aesopic fables by Marie de France, Isopet  I, Isopet II de Paris, and Isopet de Chartres.  Notes. Selected bibliography.  Snodgrass, Mary Ellen,   Encyclopedia of Fable ; ABC-  CLIO,   Santa   Barbara,   Denver,   and   Oxford  (England), 1998. Lengthy entries on individual  fables, fable writers, and collections of fables  from the ancient world down to the present.  Sources are listed following each entry, and refer  to the extensive bibliography. Internet sources  are also listed, and there is a general index.  Ballad Collections  Child, Francis James (ed.),   The English and Scottish  Popular Ballads ; Houghton, Mifflin and Com -  pany, New York, 1884–1898. Reissued by Dover  Publications, Inc., New York, 1965. The classic  five-volume   work   with   the   ballads,   variants,  notes, etc. A standard text.  Friedman, Albert F.   The Viking Book of Folk Ballads  of the English-Speaking World ; The Viking Press,  New York, 1963. A good one-volume collection  of ballads with brief introductions, bibliogra -  phy, and an index to titles and first lines of the  ballads.  Kinsley, James (ed.),   The Oxford Book of Ballads ;  Oxford at the Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1969. A  collection with the music. Introduction. Notes.  Leach, MacEdward (ed.),   The Ballad Book ; Harper &  Brothers, New York, 1955. Excellent selection  with English, Scottish, and American ballads.  Good introduction. Notes. Index.  Lockhart, J. G. (ed. and trans.),   The Spanish Ballads ;  The Century Co., New York, 1907. An edition  with notes of one of the most popular 19th-cen -  tury translations.  Olrik, Axel (ed.),   A Book of Danish Ballads ; translated  by E. M. Smith-Dampier; Princeton University  Press, Princeton, N.J., 1939. A selection of bal -  lads in a wide range. Long, good introduction.  Percy,   Thomas   (ed.),   Reliques   of   Ancient   English  Poetry ;   edited   by   J.   V.   Prichard;   Thomas   Y.  Crowell and Co., New York, 1875. An edition  of the classic collection. Introduction. Notes.  Glossary.  Wimberly, Lowry C.,   Folklore in the English and  Scottish   Ballads ;   Frederick   Ungar   Publishing  Co., New York, 1928. Study of the customs and  beliefs in English and Scottish ballads relating to  religion and magic. Bibliography. Index.  Flora and Fauna in  Mythology and Folklore  Davis, Courtney,   Celtic Beasts: Animal Motifs and  Zoomorphic Design in Celtic Art ; Blandford, Lon -  don, 1999. Animals in Celtic art, decoration and  ornaments. Bibliography and general index.  Gubernatis, Angelo de,   Zoological Mythology, or The  Legends of Animals ; Trubner & Co., London,  1872; reissued by Singing Tree Press, Detroit,  1968. The work contains a wealth of information  as well as summaries of myths, fables, and legends  relating to animals. But a major drawback is that  the author ascribes nearly every incident in each  tale to a natural phenomenon such as Dawn, Sun -  set, Wind, Storm, and others. Index.  Lum, Peter,   Fabulous Beasts ; Pantheon Books, New  York, 1951. A popular study of fantastic and  mythical animals. Index.  Mercatante, Anthony S.,   The Magic Garden: The  Myth and Folklore of Flowers, Plants, Trees, and  Herbs ; Harper & Row, New York, 1976. A cov -  erage that explores world folklore. Introduction.  Illustrations. Annotated bibliography. Index.  ———,   Zoo of the Gods: Animals in Myth, Legend, and  Fable ; Harper & Row, New York, 1974. A com -  parative study of world myth and legend relating  to various animals. Illustrated. Annotated bibli -  ography. Index.  1074   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1092 ===
Porteous, Alexander,   Forest Folklore, Mythology, and  Romance ; George Allen & Unwin, Ltd., London,  1928. A general survey of the topic. Index.  Thiselton-Dyer, T. F.,   The Folklore of Plants ; Chatto &  Windus, London, 1889; reissued by Singing Tree  Press, Detroit, 1968. Basically a coverage of Eng -  lish folklore regarding the plant world. Index.  Vickery, Roy,   A Dictionary of Plant Lore ; Oxford Uni -  versity Press, Oxford, 1995.  White, T. H., (ed. and trans.),   The Bestiary ; Cap -  ricorn Books, G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York,  1960. A translation of a medieval bestiary of the  12th   century.   Wonderful   reading.   Illustrated.  Introduction.  English Bibles,  Apocryphal Books,  Biblical Legends,  Commentaries,  Dictionaries, and  Encyclopedias  Apocryphal Gospels, Acts and Revelation ; edited and  translated by Alexander Walker; T. & T. Clark,  Edinburgh, 1890. An excellent selection of the  tales and legends not included in the New Testa -  ment. Index.  The Apocryphal New Testament ; edited and translated  by Montague Rhodes James, Oxford University  Press, 1924. An excellent selection but a stiff  translation of the various apocryphal gospels,  acts, epistles, and apocalypses not included in  the New Testament. Index of subjects.  Ashe, Geoffrey,   The Encyclopedia of Prophecy ; ABC-  CLIO,   Santa   Barbara,   Denver,   and   Oxford  (England),   2001.   A   factual   A-to-Z   reference  guide, with a global perspective on the role of  prophecy in world history, religion, folklore, and  literature. Bibliography and general index.  Charlesworth, James H. (ed.),   The Old Testament  Pseudepigrapha ; Doubleday & Company, Inc.,  Garden City, N.Y., 1985. A massive, two-volume  work, containing all of the material not included  in the Old Testament but rich in folklore. Notes.  Index.  Frazer, James George,   Folklore in the Old Testament ;  The   Macmillan   Company,   London,   1918.   A  three-volume study of the subject. There is also  a one-volume abridged edition by Frazer pub -  lished in 1923.  Gaer, Joseph,   The Lore of the New Testament ; Little,  Brown   and   Co.,   Boston,   1952.   An   excellent  collection built around the figures of the New  Testament. Notes on sources.  ———,   The Lore of the Old Testament ; Little, Brown  and Co., Boston, 1951. An excellent collection  of legends built around Bible stories. Notes on  sources.  Gaster, Theodor H.,   Myth, Legend, and Custom in the  Old Testament: A Comparative Study with Chapters  from Sir James G. Frazer’s Folklore in the Old  Testament ; Harper & Row, New York, 1969. An  edition of Frazer updated with much new mate -  rial. A must for biblical mythology and legend.  Introduction. Notes.  Guiley, Rosemary Ellen,   The Encyclopedia of Saints ;  Facts On File, New York, 2001. Entries on saints  and their journeys. Includes cross references,  appendices, bibliography, and general index.  Hastings,   James   (ed.),   A   Dictionary   of   the   Bible ;  Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York, 1898. A  four-volume work dealing with every aspect of  the Bible. An additional volume was included in  1904, bringing it up to that date.  The Holy Bible: A Translation from the Latin Vulgate  in the Light of the Hebrew and Greek Originals ;  translated by Ronald Knox; Sheed & Ward,  Inc., New York, 1944. An important translation  because it is from the Latin Bible, which was the  one used during the Middle Ages and had the  greatest influence on art.  The Interpreter’s Bible ; Abingdon Press, New York/  Nashville, 1952. A 12-volume work with the  King   James   Version   and   Revised   Standard  Version   as   texts.   Numerous   general   articles.  Indexes.  The Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible: An Illustrated  Encyclopedia ; Abingdon Press, Nashville, Tenn.,  1964. A four-volume reference work that is a  must.  The Jerome Biblical Commentary,   edited by R. E.  Brown, J. A. Fitzmyer, and R. E. Murphy; Pren -  tice Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1968. A  good one-volume Catholic commentary. Index.  Sanmel, Samuel (gen. ed.),   The New English Bible with  the Apocrypha ; Oxford Study Edition. Contem -  porary British translation of the Bible. Introduc -  tions. Annotations. Cross-references. Indexes.  The New Jerusalem Bible ; Doubleday & Company,  Inc., Garden City, N.Y., 1985. A revision of the  Annotated Bibliography   1075

=== 페이지 1093 ===
earlier 1966 version, which is very popular. Must  be used with caution. Numerous misprints. Very  Roman Catholic notes.  The Oxford Annotated Bible with the Apocrypha ; Revised  Standard Version, edited by H. G. May and B.  M.   Metzger,   Oxford   University   Press,   New  York, 1965. A handy one-volume annotated RSV  Bible. Charts. Tables. Indexes.  Peake’s Commentary on the Bible,   edited by M. Black  and H. H. Rowley; Thomas Nelson and Sons,  Ltd., London, 1962. A good one-volume com -  mentary on the Bible. Index.  Tanakh: A New Translation of The Holy Scriptures  According to the Traditional Hebrew Text ; The  Jewish Publication Society, Philadelphia, 1985.  A new English translation of the Hebrew Scrip -  tures.   Reading   it   against   standard   Christian  translations of the Old Testament is very enlight -  ening. Notes.  Ancient and Modern  Near East Mythology  Eberhard, Wolfram,   Minstrel Tales from Southeastern  Turkey ; Arno, New York, [1955] 1980.  Gilgamesh, The Epic of ; Penguin Book, Baltimore,  1960. A prose version of the epic by N. K.  Sandars, pulling together various ancient ver -  sions. Contains a long introduction giving back -  ground. Glossary.  Gray, John,   Near Eastern Mythology: Mesopotamia,  Syria, Palestine ; Paul Hamlyn, Ltd., London,  1969. A very useful, short, illustrated study of a  very complex subject. Reading list. Index.  Heidel, Alexander,   The Gilgamesh Epic and Old Testa -  ment Parallels ; The University of Chicago Press,  Chicago, 1946. A translation and interpretation  of the ancient epic poem, with other myths and  legends relating to it. No index.  Jastrow, Morris,   The Religion of Babylonia and Assyria ;  Ginn & Company, Boston, 1898. Classic, 19th-  century study by a well-known scholar. Bibliog -  raphy. Index.  Pritchard, James B. (ed.),   The Ancient Near East: An  Anthology of Texts and Pictures ; Princeton Uni -  versity Press, Princeton, N.J., 1958. A collection  of important Near Eastern texts, many relating  to mythology, such as Gilgamesh. Illustrations.  Notes. Glossary. Index.  Pritchard, James B.,   Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relat -  ing to the Old Testament ; Princeton University  Press,   Princeton,   N.J.,   1955.   An   important  collection of texts, many of which are original  sources for myths and legends relating to the  Near East. The work is fully annotated. Some  of the translations, however, are very stiff and  awkward. Index of biblical names.  Sandars, N. K. (ed.),   Poems of Heaven and Hell from  Ancient Mesopotamia ; Penguin Books, Baltimore.  An excellent collection of texts. Notes. Glossary.  Spence, Lewis,   Myths & Legends of Babylonia and  Assyria ; Harrap & Co., London, 1916; reissued  by Gale Research Company, Detroit, 1975. A  popular study of these fascinating myths but  often confusing. Glossary. Index.  Egyptian Mythology  Aldred, Cyril,   Akhenaten: Pharaoh of Egypt—A New  Study ; McGraw-Hill, New York, 1968. Dero -  manticizes   Akhenaten   as   a   religious   revolu -  tionary.   One   of   the   few   books   to   mention  Akhenaten’s homosexuality. Chronology. Notes.  Select bibliography. Index.  The Book of the Dead : The Hieroglyphic Transcript  of the Papyrus of Ani ; translated by E. A. Wallis  Budge; Medici Society Edition, 1913. Reissued by  University Books, New Hyde Park, N.Y., 1960.  Based on various editions published by Budge,  1890, 1894, and 1913. A major source book but  very difficult to read. It contains rubrics and rituals  and alludes to mythology. It is similar to trying to  reconstruct Christian mythology from a hymnal.  Budge, E. A. Wallis,   Egyptian Religion: Egyptian Ideas  of the Future Life ; London, 1900; reissued by  Bell Publishing Company, New York, 1969. A  short study of the cult of Osiris, the major god  of death and resurrection in ancient Egypt. No  index.  ———,   The Gods of the Egyptians, or Studies in Egyptian  Mythology ; The Open Court Publishing Com -  pany, Chicago, 1904; reissued by Dover Publica -  tions, New York, 1969. Classic study with quotes  from many ancient Egyptian texts, but it is poorly  arranged and often contradicts itself from one  section to another. Illustrations. Index.  Erman, Aldolf,   The Ancient Egyptians: A Sourcebook of  Their Writings ; translated by Aylward M. Black -  man; Harper Torchbooks, New York, 1966. An  interesting anthology, though many of the trans -  lations are very stiff and awkward. The Harper  Torchbook   edition   is   a   republication   of   The  1076   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1094 ===
Literature of the Ancient Egyptians   (1927 English  translation).  Frankfort, Henri,   Ancient Egyptian Religion ; Colum -  bia University Press, New York, 1948; reissued  by Harper Torchbooks, New York, 1961. A short  survey of Egyptian gods and goddesses, way of  life, art, and literature. Index.  Ions, Veronica,   Egyptian Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn,  London, 1965. A fully illustrated study of the  gods and goddesses of ancient Egypt. Index.  James, T. G. H.,   Myths and Legends of Ancient Egypt ;  Grosset & Dunlap, New York, 1971. Popular  retellings of various Egyptian myths with con -  temporary illustrations. Index.  Maspero, Gaston C. C.,   Popular Stories of Ancient  Egypt ; translated by A. S. Johns; reissued by  University Books, New Hyde Park, N.Y., 1969.  Original edition in English, 1915. Contains 17  complete Egyptian stories and six fragments.  Many of the tales are classics in world folklore.  Mercatante, Anthony S.,   Who’s Who in Egyptian  Mythology ;   Clarkson   N.   Potter,   Inc.,   New  York, 1978. An A-to-Z dictionary of Egyptian  mythology, illustrated by the author. Numerous  cross-references. Introduction by Dr. Robert  S.   Bianchi   of   the   Department   of   Egyptian  and   Classical   Art,   The   Brooklyn   Museum.  Bibliography.  Pinch, Geraldine,   Handbook of Egyptian Mythology ;  ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford  (England),   2002.   The   work   covers   Egyptian  culture from c. 3200   b.c.e.,   with an introduction  that provides background information. There  are cross-references, a glossary, and a listing of  nonprint resources including videos, Web sites,  and CD-ROMS.  Quirke,   Stephen,   Ancient   Egyptian   Religion ;   Cor -  nell University Press, Ithaca, New York, 2001.  A publication for the Trustees of the British  Museum. A good summary of the religion(s) of  Egypt. Index.  Simpson, William Kelly,   The Literature of Ancient  Egypt: An Anthology of Stories, Instructions and  Poetry ;   Yale   University   Press,   New   Haven,  Conn., and London, 1972. An excellent anthol -  ogy. Translations vary in merit. Introduction.  Zecchi, Marco,   A Study of the Egyptian God Osiris  Hemag ; Editrice La Mandragora, Imola, Italy,  1996. A detailed study of a single Egyptian god,  Osiris. Bibliography, index.  Persian Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Christensen, Arthur (ed.),   Persian Folktales ; trans -  lated by Alfred Kurti; G. Bell & Sons Ltd., Lon -  don, 1971. Good selection of folktales. Notes  and sources.  Curtis,   Vesta   Sarkhosh,   Persian   Myths ;   Univer -  sity of Texas Press, Austin, 1993. Published in  cooperation with British Museum Press. Good  illustrations, includes bibliography and a general  index.  Fardusi,   The Shah-Namah ; translated by Alexander  Rogers;   Original   edition,   1907;   reissued   by  Heritage   Publishers,   Delhi,   India,   1973.   An  abridged translation of the massive epic poem in  both prose and verse.  Hinnells, John R.,   Persian Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn,  London, 1973. Excellent, illustrated short study.  Bibliography. Index.  Hebrew and Jewish  Mythology, Legend,  and Folklore  Armistead, Samuel J., Joseph H. Silverman, and  Israel J. Katz,   Folk Literature of the Sephardic  Jews ;   3   vols.   University   of   California   Press,  Berkeley, 1994.  Ausubel, Nathan,   A Treasury of Jewish Folklore ; Crown  Publishers, New York, 1948. An excellent anthol -  ogy, covering stories, traditions, legends, humor,  wisdom, and folk song. Glossary. Index.  Ben-Amos, Dan, and Jerome R. Mintz (eds. and  trans.),   In Praise of the Baal Shem Tov: The Earliest  Collection of Legends about the Founder of Hasidism ;  Indiana University Press, Bloomington, 1972.  Bin Gorion, Micha Joseph (collector),   Mimekor Yis -  rael: Classical Jewish Folktales ; translated by Dan  Ben-Amos; Indiana University Press, Bloom -  ington,   and   London,   1976.   A   three-volume  collection made up of religious tales, national  tales, folktales, and oriental tales. Sources and  References.  Gaster, Theodor H.,   Customs and Folkways of Jewish  Life ; William Sloane Associates Publishers, New  York, 1955. A reissue of   The Holy and the Profane,  covering various aspects of Jewish beliefs and  rituals in relation to world folklore. Bibliogra -  phy. Index.  Ginzberg, Louis,   The Legends of the Jews ; translated  by   Henrietta   Szold;   The   Jewish   Publication  Annotated Bibliography   1077

=== 페이지 1095 ===
Society of America, Philadelphia, [1900] 1968. A  seven-volume collection of Jewish legends built  around biblical themes. Sources. Index.  Hanauer,   J.   E.,   Folklore   of   the   Holy   Land:   Mos -  lem, Christian, and Jewish ; Duckworth, London,  1907.  Mintz, Jerome R.,   The Legends of Hasidim: An Intro -  duction to Hasidic Culture and Oral Tradition in  the New World ; University of Chicago Press,  Chicago, 1968.  Noy, Dov (ed.),   Folktales of Israel ; translated by Gene  Baharav; University of Chicago Press, Chicago,  1963. One of the volumes in the series   Folktales  of the World   under the editorship of Richard M.  Dorson. The present collection contains exten -  sive notes. Index of Motifs and Index of Tale  Types. Bibliography. General index.  Talmud, The, Selections ; translated by H. Polano;  Frederick Warne & Co., Ltd., London, reprinted  1965. Good selection of various biblical themes  and stories built around them. No index.  Weinreich, Beatrice Silverman (ed.),   Yiddish Folk -  tales ; Pantheon Books, New York, 1988. Small  selection of Yiddish tales.  Yassif, Eli,   The Hebrew Folktale: History, Genre, Mean -  ing ; Indiana University Press, Bloomington, 1999.  Good selection with accompanying analysis.  Christian Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Ballou, Robert O.,   The Other Jesus ; Doubleday &  Co., Garden City, N.Y., 1972. A narrative based  on the apocryphal stories of Jesus not included  in the canon of the New Testament but very  much a part of Christian legend. Sources.  Brewer, E. Cobham,   A Dictionary of Miracles ; J. B.  Lippincott   Co.,   Philadelphia,   1884;   reissued  by Gale Research Co., Detroit, 1966. Abso -  lutely fascinating reading about the saints and  miracles.  Butler, Alban,   The Lives of the Saints ; edited by Herbert  Thurston and Donald Attwater; P. J. Kennedy &  Sons, New York, 1965. A four-volume set, based  on Butler but drastically rewritten. Florid prose.  Major source book for lives of the saints. Arranged  according to the Christian calendar.  Cross, F. L. (ed.),   The Oxford Dictionary of the Chris -  tian Church ; Oxford University Press, London,  1957. The best one-volume guide to the Chris -  tian Church, its saints, and customs.  Jameson, Mrs.   The History of Our Lord ; Longmans,  Green, and Co., London, 1872. The classic two-  volume study of the life of Jesus as portrayed in  works of art. Gives numerous legends. Index.  ———,   Legends of the Madonna ; Longmans, Green,  and Co., London, 1879. The classic study of the  Virgin Mary in works of art. Gives numerous  legends. Index.  ———,   Legends of the Monastic Orders ; Longmans,  Green, and Co., London, 1880. A study of saints  connected with monastic orders and their por -  trayal in art. Numerous legends. Index.  ———,   Sacred and Legendary Art ; Longmans, Green,  and Co., London, 1879. A two-volume set cov -  ering angels, archangels, evangelists, apostles,  Doctors of the Church, and Mary Magdalene, as  portrayed in art. Numerous legends. Index.  Metford, J. C. J.,   Dictionary of Christian Lore and  Legend ; Thames and Hudson, Ltd., London,  1983. Excellent one-volume, illustrated guide to  Christian lore and legend.  Voragine, Jacobus,   The Golden Legend ; translated  and adapted by Granger Ryan and Helmut Rip -  perger; Longmans, Green and Co., New York,  1941. A shortened version that often omits the  best parts of the legends because they might  seem outlandish to present-day Roman Catho -  lics. Index.  ———,   The Golden Legend or Lives of the Saints ;  translated by William Caxton; J. M. Dent and  Co.,   London,   1900.   An   edition   of   Caxton’s  English version, with modern spelling, in seven  volumes.  Armenian Mythology  legend, and Folklore  Ananikian, Mardiros H.,   Armenian Mythology ; Mar -  shall   Jones   Company,   Boston,   1925.   Vol.   7,  The Mythology of All Races ; reissued by Cooper  Square Publishers, Inc., New York, 1964. Notes.  Bibliography. No index, except in final volume  of full set.  Arnot, Robert (ed.),   Armenian Literature ; The Colo -  nial Press, New York, 1901. An anthology con -  taining poetry, drama, and folklore.  Islamic Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Arabian Nights’ Entertainments, or The Thousand and  One Nights ; translated by Edward William Lane;  1078   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1096 ===
Tudor Publishing Co., New York, 1946. A con -  temporary edition of the famous Lane translation,  published in 1838 and 1840. Extensive notes.  The Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night ; ren -  dered into English from the literal and complete  French   translation   of   Dr.   J.   C.   Mardrus   by  Powys Mathers; St. Martin’s Press, New York,  1972. A four-volume edition of the classic work  in a very readable English form.  Gibb, H. A. R., and Kramers, J. H. (eds.),   Shorter  Encyclopedia of Islam ; E. J. Brill, Leiden, 1961.  A very scholarly one-volume edition on Islam.  Helpful   for   background.   Various   entries   on  legendary persons, heaven and hell. Register of  subjects.  Hughes, Thomas Patrick,   Dictionary of Islam ; Cosmo  Publications, New Delhi, India, 1977. Reprint  of 1885 edition. A one-volume dictionary with  some   entries   on   mythology   and   folklore   in  Islam. Index.  Jeffery, Arthur (ed.),   Islam: Muhammad and His Reli -  gion ; The Liberal Arts Press, New York, 1958.  Anthology covering varying aspects of Islam,  some of which deals with folklore. Glossary.  Leick,   Gwendolyn,   A   Dictionary   of   Ancient   Near  Eastern Mythology ; Routledge, London and New  York, 1991. Short and lengthy entries, with a  chronological   chart,   a   glossary,   bibliography  and a general index. There are also 44 black and  white photographs and illustrations.  The Koran ; translated by J. M. Rodwell; J. M. Dent  & Sons, Ltd., London, 1909. An edition of the  classic English translation. Notes.  The Qur’an ; translated by Richard Bell; T. & T.  Clark, Edinburgh, 1937. A two-volume edition  of the Qur’an (The Koran) with a rearrange -  ment of the suras. Notes.  The   Quran:   The   Eternal   Revelation   Vouchsafed   to  Muhammad, The Seal of the Prophets ; translated  by Muhammad Zafrulla Khan; Curzon Press,  1971. An English translation with Arabic text  facing; it presents the book in English by a  believer. Index.  Muhawi, Ibrahim, and Sharif Kanaana,   Speak Bird,  Speak Again: Palestinian Arab Folk Tales ; Univer -  sity of California Press, Berkeley, 1989. Good  selection of Palestinian tales.  Skurzynski, Gloria,   Two Fools and a Faker: Three  Lebanese Folk Tales ; Lathrop, Lee, and Shepard,  New York, 1977. Very limited selection.  Greek and Roman  Mythology, Legend, and  Folklore (Classical)  Anderson, Graham,   Greek and Roman Folklore: A  Handbook ;   (Greenwood   Folklore   Handbooks);  Greenwood Press, Westport, Conn., and Lon -  don, 2006. One of the volumes in the series  Folklore Handbooks   by Greenwood Press.  Apollodorus,   The Library ; translated by James George  Frazer; Loeb Classical Library, New York, 1921. A  two-volume edition of one of the basic sources for  Greek mythology. Introduction. Notes. Appendix  comparing Greek myth with world myth. Index.  Bowder, Diana (ed.),   Who’s Who in the Greek World ;  Washington Square Press, New York, 1982.  ———, (ed.),   Who’s Who in the Roman World ; Wash -  ington Square Press, New York, 1980.  Dixon-Kennedy, Mike,   Encyclopedia of Greco-Roman  Mythology ; ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver,  and Oxford (England), 1998. Good entries on  both Greece and Rome, most are short but  substantial, with cross-references following the  entry. In addition to the bibliography there are  also chronologies for ancient Greece and Rome,  and a list of Roman emperors. General index.  Gilbert, John,   Myths and Legends of Ancient Rome ;  Paul Hamlyn, London, 1970. A short collection  of myths and legends.  Godolphin, F. R. B. (ed.),   Great Classical Myths ; The  Modern Library, New York, 1964. A collection  of myths from a variety of sources in a variety of  translations. Introduction. Glossary. Index.  Grant, Michael,   Myths of the Greeks and Romans ;  World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio,  1962. A study with numerous references to art,  music, and literature. Bibliography. Index.  Graves, Robert,   The Greek Myths ; George Braziller,  Inc., New York, 1955. Excellent retellings of the  myths based on the ancient sources. Complete  notes. One may disagree with Graves’s interpre -  tations, but the stories are very well told. Index.  Greene, David, and Richmond Lattimore (eds.),   The  Complete Greek Tragedies ; The University of Chi -  cago Press, Chicago, 1959. A four-volume set  of the complete works of the Greek dramatists  in   contemporary   English   poetic   translations.  Introductions.  Hendricks, Rhoda A. (ed. and trans.),   Classical Gods  and Heroes; Myths as Told by Ancient Authors ;  Frederick Ungar Publishing Co., New York,  Annotated Bibliography   1079

=== 페이지 1097 ===
1972. Modern translations of original sources  for many myths. Introduction. Glossary.  Hesiod,   Theogony, Works and Days ; translated by  Dorothea Wender; Penguin Books, Baltimore,  1973. A prose translation of the important texts.  Introduction. Notes.  ———,   Works and Days ; translated by Hugh G.  Evelyn-White; Loeb Classical Library, 1914. A  Greek text with English prose translation. Book  also includes the Homeric Hymns and other  Homerica. Introduction. Index.  ———,   The Works and Days, Theogony, The Shield  of Herakles ; translated by Richmond Lattimore;  The University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor,  1959. A poetic translation of some basic texts on  Greek mythology. Introduction.  Homer,   The   Iliad ;   translated   by   Richmond   Lat -  timore; The University of Chicago Press, Chi -  cago, 1951. A modern verse translation of the  epic. Introduction. Glossary.  ———,   The Iliad ; translated by Alexander Pope;  edited by Reuben A. Brower and W. H. Bond;  The Macmillan Co., New York, 1965. The most  famous translation into English. Introduction.  Textual notes.  ———,   The Iliad, The Odyssey and The Lesser Homer -  ica ; edited by Allardyce Nicoll; Princeton Uni -  versity Press, Princeton, N.J., 1967. An edition  in two volumes of the classic Chapman’s transla -  tions. Introduction. Notes. Commentary.  ———,   The Odyssey ; translated by E. V. Rieu; Pen -  guin Books, Baltimore, 1946. A simple prose  version of the epic poem. Introduction.  Kravitz,   David,   Who’s   Who   in   Greek   and   Roman  Mythology ; Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., New York,  1975. An A-to-Z listing, important in that it  gives all of the relationships—mother, father,  husband, wife, offspring, etc.  Lempriere’s Classical Dictionary of Proper Names Men -  tioned in Ancient Authors ; edited by F. A. Wright;  E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc., New York, 1955. An  edition of a classic dictionary, used by Keats and  other Romantic poets. The names, however, are  listed under their Roman forms.  Loukatos, Dimitrios,   Introduction to Greek Folklore ;  MIET (Educational Foundation, National Bank  of Greece), Athens, 1977. Basic presentation of  the study of Greek folklore.  Mayerson, Philip,   Classical Mythology in Literature,  Art and Music ; Xerox College Publishing, Lex -  ington, Mass., 1971. Excellent illustrated cover -  age of Greek and Roman mythology in relation  to the arts. Introduction. Index.  Melas, Evi,   Temples and Sanctuaries of Ancient Greece ;  translated by F. Maxwell Brownjohn; Thames  and Hudson, London, 1970. A rich study of  Greek temples and the cults surrounding them.  Illustrated. Index.  Norton, Dan S., and Peters Rushton,   Classical Myths  in English Literature ; Rinehard & Company, Inc.,  1952. A very thorough coverage of the myths  and how they are used in English literature,  arranged A to Z.  Ovid,   Heroides   and   Amores ;   translated   by   Grant  Showerman; Loeb Classical Library, New York,  1921. Latin with English prose translation on  facing page.  ———,   The Metamorphoses ; translated by Horace  Gregory; The Viking Press, New York, 1958. A  major poetic translation of the poem. Introduc -  tion. Glossary.  ———,   The   Metamorphoses ;   translated   by   Rolfe  Humphries; Indiana University Press, Bloom -  ington, 1964. A spirited blank-verse translation  of one of the major sources of Greek and Roman  mythology. Glossary. Index.  ———,   The   Metamorphoses ;   translated   by   Mary  M. Innes; Penguin Books, Baltimore, 1955. A  modern, somewhat stiff prose translation of the  brilliant poem. Introduction.  ———,   The Metamorphoses ; translated by Frank Jus -  tus Miller; Loeb Classical Library, New York,  1916. A two-volume prose translation with Latin  on facing pages.  Ovid’s Metamorphoses: The Arthur Golding Translation  (1567) ; edited by John Frederick Nims; The  Macmillan Co., New York, 1965. A modern  edition of the classic English translation read by  Shakespeare. Notes. Glossary.  Ovid’s Works ; translated into English prose by Henry  T. Riley; G. Bell & Sons, Ltd., London, 1912.  A three-volume set containing all of the works,  translated into a very dull English but useful  because of its completeness.  Perowne, Stewart,   Roman Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn,  London, 1969. Excellent, fully illustrated study.  Introduction. Further reading list. Index.  Rose, H. J.,   A Handbook of Greek Mythology ; Methuen  & Co., Ltd., London, 1928. Interesting study.  Notes. Bibliography. Indexes.  1080   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1098 ===
Scherer, Margaret R.,   The Legends of Troy in Art and  Literature ; Phaidon Press, New York and Lon -  don, 1963. A study, with illustrations, of the rich  art works and books produced from the Troy  legend. Contains a list of works of literature and  music dealing with the Trojan War. Index.  Seyefert, Oskar S.,   A Dictionary of Classical Antiqui -  ties, Mythology, Religion, Literature and Art ; Wil -  liam Glaisher, Ltd., London, 1891. An excellent  dictionary compiled in the 19th century.  Tripp, Edward,   Crowell’s Handbook of Classical Mythol -  ogy ; Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York,  1970. Dictionary length entries and a pronun -  ciation index.  Vergil,   The Aeneid ; translated by Patrick Dickinson;  The New American Library, New York, 1961. A  poetic translation of the classic.  ———,   The Aeneid ; translated by John Dryden; edited  by Robert Fitzgerald; The Macmillan Co., New  York, 1965. The most famous English translation  in heroic couplets. Introduction. Notes.  ———,   The Aeneid ; translated by Robert Fitzgerald;  Random House, New York, 1981. A new poetic  translation by an important poet.  ———,   The Aeneid ; translated by William Morris;  Longmans, Green, and Co., London, 1900. A  very interesting translation by the 19th-century  English designer and poet.  Zimmerman, J. E.,   Dictionary of Classical Mythol -  ogy ; Harper & Row, New York, 1964. A con -  cise   dictionary   with   references   to   literature.  Introduction.  Medieval Legends (General)  Gesta Romanorum ; translated by Charles Swan; Bohn  Library Edition, 1876. Reissued by Dover Pub -  lications, New York, 1959. The classic medieval  collection of tales from a variety of sources.  Guerber, H. A.,   Legends of the Middle Ages ; American  Book Co., New York, 1896. A popular retelling  of many medieval legends, connecting them to  literature. Glossary. Index.  Guido delle Colonne,   Historia Destructionis Troiae ;  translated   by   Mary   Elizabeth   Meek;   Indiana  University   Press,   Bloomington,   1974.   The  medieval version of the destruction of Troy,  which had a great influence on the legends in  Europe. Introduction. Notes.  Jones, Charles W. (ed.),   Medieval Literature in Trans -  lation ; Longmans, Green and Co., New York,  1950. An excellent anthology with a variety of  literature, including much legendary material.  Introduction. Bibliography.  Lindahl, Carl, John McNamara and John Lindow  (eds.),   Medieval Folklore: An Encyclopedia of Myths,  Legends, Tales, Beliefs, and Customs ; ABC-CLIO,  Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England),  2000. A two-volume set written by contributors  from around the world, even though the entries  are primarily on European topics. Cross-refer -  ences, sources and references for further reading  follow each entry. There are also three indexes:  one of tale types, one of motifs, and a general  index.  Medieval Epics ; The Modern Library, New York,  1963. An anthology, no listing of an editor, of  Beowulf,   translated by William Alfred (1963);  The Song of Roland,   translated by W. S. Merwin  (1959);   The Nibelungenlied,   translated by Helen  M. Mustard (1963); and   The Poem of the Cid,  translated by W. S. Merwin (1959).  Schlauch, Margaret (trans.),   Medieval Narrative: A  Book of Translations ; Gordian Press, New York,  1928. A varied collection, including Icelandic  sagas, chansons de geste, the Tristan legend, the  legend of the Holy Grail, the Nibelung cycle,  the tale of Troy, the legend of Alexander the  Great, saints’ lives, and   fabliaux.  Spence, Lewis,   A Dictionary of Medieval Romance and  Romance Writers ; Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd.,  London, 1913; reissued by Humanities Press, Inc.,  New York, 1962. A dictionary of much medieval  legend but somewhat difficult to follow.  Arthurian Legends  The High History of the Holy Graal ; translated by  Sebastian Evans; J. M. Dent & Sons, Ltd., Lon -  don, 1898. A classic translation of the legend  surrounding the Holy Grail.  Jenkins,   Elizabeth,   The   Mystery   of   King   Arthur ;  Coward, McCann & Geohegan, Inc., New York,  1975. A study of the legends, with numerous  illustrations.  Kennedy, Edward Donald (ed. and introduction),  King Arthur: A Casebook ; Garland, New York,  1996. A collection of studies by authors from  around the world on King Arthur. Illustrations  and bibliography.  Malory, Sir Thomas,   Le Morte D’Arthur ; edited by A.  W. Pollard; University Books, New Hyde Park,  Annotated Bibliography   1081

=== 페이지 1099 ===
N.Y., 1961. An edition of the classic Arthurian  account in English. Glossary.  ———,   Le   Morte   D’Arthur ;   edited   by   Edward  Stachey;   Macmillan   and   Co.,   Ltd.,   London,  1868. An edition of Caxton’s text. Introduction.  Notes. Glossary.  Steinbeck, John,   The Acts of King Arthur and His Noble  Knights ; edited by Chase Horton; Farrar, Straus  and Giroux, New York, 1976. An edition of Mal -  ory from the Winchester manuscript. A reworking  of the Arthurian legends by a modern novelist.  British and Welsh  Mythology, Legend,  and Folklore  Beowulf ;   translated   by   Burton   Raffel;   The   New  American Library, New York, 1963. A poetic  translation.   Afterword   by   Robert   P.   Creed.  Glossary of names.  Beowulf ; translated by Chauncey Brewster Tinker;  Newson & Company, New York, 1902. A prose  translation of the great epic. Notes. Index of  proper names.  Briggs, Katherine, and Ruth M. Tongue, eds.,   Folk -  tales of England ; University of Chicago Press,  Chicago, 1965. One of the volumes in the series  Folktales of the World   under the editorship of  Richard M. Dorson. The present collection con -  tains extensive notes. Index of Motifs and Index  of Tale Types. Bibliography. General index.  Briggs, Katharine M. (ed.),   A Dictionary of British  Folk-Tales ; Indiana University Press, Blooming -  ton, 1971. The most complete collection to date.  Introduction. Notes.  Ebbutt, M. I.,   The British: Myths and Legends Series ;  George G. Harrap & Co., London, 1910; reis -  sued by Avenel Books, New York, 1986. Popular  retellings of the major myths and legends from  Beowulf to Robin Hood. Glossary and index.  Geoffrey of Monmouth,   Histories of the Kings of Brit -  ain ; translated by Sebastian Evans; J. M. Dent  and Co., London, 1928. A translation of one of  the major sources of British mythology.  ———,   The History of the Kings of Britain ; translated  by Lewis Thorpe; Penguin Books Ltd., 1966. A  modern translation. Excellent introduction.  The   Mabinogion ;   translated   by   Charlotte   Guest;  Bernard Quaritch, London, 1877; reissued by  Academy Press Ltd., Chicago, 1978. A classic  translation of the tales that made them popular  with   English-speaking   peoples.   Introduction.  Notes.  The   Mabinogion ;   translated   by   Gwyn   Jones   and  Thomas Jones; Everyman’s Library, New York,  1949. A more exact translation of the text than  that of Guest. Introduction. Notes.  Philip, Neil,   The Penguin Book of English Folktales ;  Penguin,   London,   1992.   Good   selection   of  English tales.  Spaeth, J. Duncan (trans.),   Old English Poetry ; Gord -  ian Press, New York, 1967; reprint of 1921 edi -  tion. A collection, translated into verse, ranging  from Beowulf to legends of the saints. Introduc -  tion. Notes.  Weston, Jessie L. (ed. and trans.),   The Chief Middle  English Poets: Selected Poems ; Phaeton Press, New  York, 1968. Reprint of 1914 edition. A collection  in verse ranging from Layamon to romances,  such as Havelok the Dane. Bibliography. Index.  Westwood, Jennifer, and Jacqueline Simpson,   The Pen -  guin Guide to the Legends of England ; Penguin, Lon -  don, 2005. Extensive guide limited to legends.  Celtic Mythology, Legend,  and Folklore  Colum, Padraic (ed.),   A Treasury of Irish Folklore ;  Crown   Publishers,   Inc.,   New   York,   1954.   A  collection of stories, traditions, legends, humor,  wisdom, ballads, and songs. Index.  Cross, Tom Pette, and Chark Harris Slover (eds.),  Ancient Irish Tales ; Barnes & Noble, Inc., New  York,   1936.   Very   good   collection   of   myths.  Introduction. Bibliography. Glossary.  Curtin, Jeremiah,   Myths and Folk-Lore of Ireland ;  Little, Brown and Co., Boston, 1890; reissued  by Singing Tree Press, Detroit, 1968. Selection  of folktales. Glossary.  Dames, Michael,   Mythic Ireland ; Thames & Hudson,  London, 1992.  Glassie, Henry,   Passing the Time in Ballymenone: Cul -  ture and History of an Ulster Community ; Univer -  sity of Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia, 1982.  Extensive study of the everyday life of a village  along the border between Ireland and Northern  Ireland. Includes an extensive bibliography and  a detailed index.  Graves, Alfred Perceval,   The Irish Fairy Book ; Cres -  cent Books, New York, 1987. A reissued volume  of a collection made by the father of the poet  Robert Graves.  1082   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1100 ===
Jacobs, Joseph (ed.),   Celtic Fairy Tales ; World Pub -  lishing Co., New York, 1971. A volume that  combines Jacobs’   Celtic Fairy Tales   (1891) and  More Celtic Fairy Tales   (1894), both published by  David Nutt, London. Notes and references.  Joyce, P. W.,   Old Celtic Romances: Tales from Irish  Mythology ; David Nutt, London, 1879; reissued  by Devin-Adair Co., New York, 1962. Well-  known 19th-century collection of tales. Intro -  duction. Notes. List of proper names.  Lover, Samuel, and Thomas Crofton Croker,   Legends  and Tales of Ireland ; Crescent Books, New York,  1987. A volume that reprints in one volume Sam -  uel Lover’s   Legends and Tales of Ireland   and Thomas  Crofton Croker’s   Fairy Legends of the South of Ire -  land,   both works written in the 19th century.  Lysaght, Patricia.   The Banshee ; O’Brien Press, Dub -  lin, 1996.  MacCana, Proinsias,   Celtic Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn,  London, 1970. An excellent study of a very  involved and complex subject. Illustrated. Bibli -  ography. Index.  MacKillop,   James,   Dictionary   of   Celtic   Mythology ;  Oxford University Press, Oxford and New York,  1998. Entries are dictionary length, but sub -  stantial. There is a pronunciation guide for the  Celtic words, a good bibliography divided into  sections such as Irish, Welsh, and Manx, and a  general index.  McGarry, Mary (ed.),   Great Folktales of Old Ireland ;  Bell Publishing Company, New York, 1972. A  collection of 17 stories, myths, and legends from  a variety of sources.  Ó hÓgáin, Dáithí,   Myth, Legend and Romance: An  Encyclopedia of the Irish Folk Tradition ; Prentice  Hall, New York, 1991.  O’Sullivan, Sean, (ed. and trans.),   Folktales of Ireland ;  University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1966.  One of the volumes in the series   Folktales of the  World   under the editorship of Richard M. Dor -  son. The present collection contains extensive  notes. Index of Motifs and Index of Tale Types.  Bibliography. General index.  O’Sullivan, Sean,   A Handbook of Irish Folklore ; Edu -  cational   Company   of   Ireland,   Dublin,   1942.  Basic presentation of the study of Irish folklore.  Rhys, John,   Celtic Folklore: Welsh and Manx ; Wild -  wood House, London, [1901] 1980. Reprint of  1901 edition devoted to Welsh and Manx (Isle  of Man) folklore.  Squire, Charles,   Celtic Myth and Legend ; Newcastle  Publishing Co., Inc., Hollywood, Calif., 1975.  Originally published as   The Mythology of the Brit -  ish Isles   (1905) in London. Index.  Italian Mythology,  legend, and folklore  Ariosto, Ludovico,   Orlando Furioso ; translated by  Guido Walkman; Oxford University Press, Lon -  don, 1974. A prose translation of the entire  work, which is based on medieval legend and  lore. Introduction.  ———,   Orlando Furioso ; translated by Sir John Har -  ington; edited by R. Gottfried; Indiana University  Press, Bloomington, and London, 1963. The clas -  sic Elizabethan translation of one of the most pop -  ular European works based on medieval legend.  Boccaccio,   The Decameron ; anonymous translation,  published in 1620; The Heritage Press, New  York, 1940. The great collection of tales, many  of which are part of European folklore.  Calvino, Italo,   Italian Folktales ; translated by George  Martin; Pantheon Books, New York, 1956. A  wonderful collection, but in many cases there is  more Calvino than Italian folklore in the tales.  Crane,   Thomas   Frederick,   Italian   Popular   Tales ;  Houghton, Mifflin, Boston, 1885; reissued by  Singing Tree Press, Detroit, 1968. Good selection  with many variants of the tales. Notes. Sources.  Dante   Alighieri,   The   Comedy   of   Dante   Alighieri ;  translated by Dorothy L. Sayers; Basic Books,  Inc., New York, 1963. A three-volume poetic  translation with copious notes. Long introduc -  tion. Excellent version.  ———,   The   Divine   Comedy ;   translated   by   John  Ciardi, The Franklin Library, Franklin Center,  Pennsylvania, 1977. A poetic translation with  notes. One of the best contemporary versions  available.  ———,   The Divine Comedy ; translated by Charles  S. Singleton; Princeton University Press, Princ -  eton, N.J., 1970. A six-volume set with original  text, prose translation. Introduction. Notes.  Falassi, A.,   Italian Folklore. An Annotated Bibliography ;  Garland, New York, 1985.  Tasso,   Torquato,   Jerusalem   Delivered ;   translated  by Joseph Tusiani; Fairleigh Dickinson Press,  Rutherford, N.J., 1970. A contemporary poetic  translation of the Renaissance epic based on  medieval legends. Introduction.  Annotated Bibliography   1083

=== 페이지 1101 ===
Toynbee, Paget,   Concise Dictionary of Proper Names  and Notable Matters in the Works of Dante ; Pha -  eton Press, New York, 1968. Reprint of the 1914  edition. Extremely helpful in locating legendary  and mythological references, but you must know  the spelling in Dante’s Italian text.  Spanish Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Don Juan Manuel,   Count Lucanor; or the Fifty Pleas -  ant Stories of Patronio ; translated by James York;  Gibbings & Company, Ltd., London, 1899. An  edition of the work originally published in 1868.  Preface. Notes.  The Lay of the Cid ; translated by Leonard Bacon and  Selden   Rose;   University   of   California   Press,  Berkeley, 1919. A poetic translation of the Span -  ish epic poem.  Pino-Saavedra, Yolanda (ed.),   Folktales of Chile ; Uni -  versity of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1967. One of  the volumes in the series   Folktales of the World  under the editorship of Richard M. Dorson.  The present collection contains extensive notes.  Index of motifs and index of tale types. Bibliog -  raphy. General index.  Ruiz, Juan,   The Book of True Love ; translated by Sara -  lyn R. Daly; The Pennsylvania State University  Press, University Park, and London, 1978. A  bilingual edition of the text with an English verse  translation. Introduction. Notes. Reader’s Guide.  Spence, Lewis,   Spain: Myths and Legends ; George C.  Harrap & Co., London, 1920; reissued by Ave -  nel Books, New York, 1986. A popular retelling  of Spanish myths and legends, including those  of the Cid and Amadis de Gaul, and the ballads.  French Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Delarue, Paul (ed.),   The Borzoi Book of French Folk  Tales ; translated by Austin E. Fife; Alfred A.  Knopf, New York, 1956. An excellent collection  of French tales. Sources and commentary.  Marie de France, Lays of ; translated by Eugene Mason;  J. M. Dent & Sons, Ltd., London, 1911. The  book includes not only tales ascribed to Marie de  France but other French legends as well.  Massignon,   Genevieve   (ed.),   Folktales   of   France ;  translated   by   Jacqueline   Hyland.   University  of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1968. One of the  volumes in the series   Folktales of the World   under  the editorship of Richard M. Dorson. The pres -  ent collection contains extensive notes. Index of  Motifs and Index of Tale Types. Bibliography.  General index.  Morris, William (trans.),   Old French Romances ; Charles  Scribner’s Sons, New York, 1896. A classic trans -  lation of the French medieval tales and legends.  Perrault,   Charles,   Fairy   Tales ;   translated   by   A.  E. Johnson and others; Dodd, Mead & Co.,  New York, 1961. All of the classic tales are  included in this edition, such as “Blue Beard”  and “Cinderella.”  The Song of Roland ; translated by Charles Scott Mon -  crieff; The Heritage Press, New York, 1938. An  English poetic version that tries to capture the  beauty of the original.  German and Austrian  Mythology, Legend, and  Folklore  Dow,   James   R.,   German   Folklore:   A   Handbook ;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2006. One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Dow, James R., and Olaf Bockhorn,   The Study of  European Ethnology in Austria ; Ashgate Publish -  ers, Aldershot, U.K., 2004. The only treatment  of Austrian folklore in English. Extensive bibli -  ography and index.  Grimm, Brothers,   Grimm’s Household Tales, trans -  lated by Margaret Hunt ; George Bell and Sons,  London, 1884; reissued by Singing Tree Press,  Detroit,   1968.   A   two-volume   edition   of   the  famous folktales. Good introduction by Andrew  Lang. Notes.  ———,   The   Complete   Fairy   Tales   of   the   Brothers  Grimm ;   Bantam   Books,   Toronto,   New   York,  London, Sydney, Auckland, 1988. The best new  translation of the Grimm tales, by Jack Zipes,  including the 32 tales included in various publi -  cations by the Grimms, but not included in the  final canon of 210 tales. German original title  and informant sources are included.  ———,   The German Legends of the Brothers Grimm ;  edited and translated by Donald Ward, Institute  for the Study of Human Issues, Philadelphia,  1981. Two volumes of the legend collection by  the Grimms, including extensive notes on each  tale, a bibliography and a general index.  1084   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1102 ===
Grimm, Jacob,   Teutonic Mythology ; George Bell and  Sons, London, 1883; reissued by Dover Publica -  tions, New York, 1966. A four-volume complex  study of Germanic mythology. Not at all as  interesting as the folktale collection but filled  with information. Index.  Mieder,   Wolfgang,   The   Pied   Piper:   A   Handbook ;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2006. One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Mai, Willi,   Sagen, Märchen und Schwänke aus Südti -  rol ; Vol. 1 and 2, edited by Leander Petzoldt;  Tyrolia Verlag, Innsbruck and Vienna, 2000 and  2002. Legends and fairy tales collected in South  Tyrol (Germany-Italy) during the early 1940s.  Roberts, Warren,   The Tale of the Kind and the Unkind  Girl ; Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, 1958. The first  American dissertation in folklore, and utilizing the  historic-geographic method (Finnish Method).  Norse, Germanic  Mythology, Legend,  and Folklore  Árnason, Jón,   Icelandic Legends ; Llanerch, Felinfach,  1995.  Christiansen,   Reidar   Thorwald   (ed.),   Folktales   of  Norway ; translated by Pat Shaw Iversen; Univer -  sity of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1964. One of the  volumes in the series   Folktales of the World   under  the editorship of Richard M. Dorson. The pres -  ent collection contains extensive notes. Index of  Motifs and Index of Tale Types. Bibliography.  General index.  Craigie, William A. (ed. and trans.),   Scandinavian  Folk-Lore ; Alexander Gardner, London, 1896;  reissued by Singing Tree Press, Detroit, 1970.  A collection of documents relating to Scandina -  vian folk beliefs. Notes. Index.  Dasent, George Webbe, compiler,   Popular Tales from  the   Norse ;   David   Douglas,   Edinburgh,   1888;  reissued by Grand River Books, Detroit, 1971.  A translation of 59 Norwegian folktales from the  Norske Folke-eventyr   published by Peter Christen  Asbjornsen and Jorgen Moe in 1843 and 1844  and expanded in 1852. The collection was also  republished by Dover Publications in 1970 as  East o’ the Sun and West o’ the Moon.  Davidson, H. R. Ellis,   Gods and Myths of Northern  Europe ; Penguin Books, Baltimore, 1964. One  of   the   best   current   studies   on   the   subject.  Index.  ———,   Scandinavian Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn, Lon -  don, 1969. A well-written, concise, illustrated  study. Bibliography. Index.  The Elder Edda: A Selection ; translated by W. H.  Auden and Paul B. Taylor; Random House, New  York, 1967. A poetic translation by one of the  great poets of the century. Introduction. Notes.  Glossary.  The Elder Edda and the Younger Edda ; translated by  Benjamin Thorpe and L. A. Blackwell; Nor -  roena Society, London, 1907.   The Elder (or Poetic)  Edda,   translated into stiff prose by Thorpe, and  The Younger (or Prose) Edda,   translated by Black -  well. Glossary.  The Poetic Edda,   translated by Henry Adams Bel -  lows; American-Scandinavian Foundation, New  York, 1923; reissued by Biblo and Tannen, New  York, 1969. A complete translation. Introduc -  tion. Notes. Index.  The Prose Edda: Tales from Norse Mythology ; translated  by Jean I. Young; University of California Press,  Berkeley, Los Angeles, and London, 1954. A very  good and readable translation of the Edda, and  includes a general index of names and places.  Einar,   Ólafur   Sveinsson,   The   Folktales   of   Iceland ;  Viking Society for Northern Research, London,  2003. Good selection of Icelandic tales.  Guerber, H. A.,   Myths of Northern Lands ; American  Book Co., New York, 1895. A popular retelling  of various myths and legends associated with  the North countries. Constant references to art.  Glossary. Index.  Hultkranz, Åke,   International Dictionary of Regional  European Ethnology and Folklore ; Rosenkilde and  Bagger, Copenhagen, 1960.  Jones, Gwynn,   Scandinavian Legends and Folk-Tales ;  Oxford University Press, London, 1956. Popu -  lar retellings of various myths and legends from  a variety of sources.  Kristjánsson, Jónas,   Icelandic Sagas and Manuscripts ;  Iceland   Review,   Reykjavik,   1980.   Beautifully  illustrated source for Icelandic sources.  Kvideland,   Reimund,   and   Henning   Sehmsdorf,  Scandinavian Folk Belief and Legend ; University  of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis, 1988.  Kvideland,   Reimund,   and   Henning   Sehmsdorf  (eds.),   Nordic   Folklore:   Recent   Studies ;   Indiana  University Press, Bloomington, 1989. A col -  Annotated Bibliography   1085

=== 페이지 1103 ===
lection of folklore studies by Nordic scholars.  Includes bibliography and index.  Lindow, John,   Swedish Legends and Folktales ; Univer -  sity of California Press, Berkeley, 1978. Good  bibliography and index.  ———,   Handbook of Norse Mythology ; ABC-CLIO,  Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England),  2001. This is the best new source for Nordic  mythology, and includes not only the individual  entries, but also a lengthy section on the “Print  and Nonprint Resources.” This latter section is  in place of a listing of bibliographical sources.  There is also a general index.  Mackenzie, Donald A.,   Teutonic Myth and Legend ;  The Gresham Publishing Co., London, n.d. A  popular retelling of various Norse and Germanic  myths. Numerous editions available. Index.  Munch, Peter Andreas,   Norse Mythology: Legends of  Gods and Heroes ; translated by Sigurd Bernhard  Hustvedt; The American-Scandinavian Foun -  dation, New York, 1927. Classic 19th-century  study. Notes. Index.  Palmer, Philip Mason, and Robert Pattison More,  The Sources of the Faust Tradition ; Oxford Uni -  versity Press, Ltd., London, 1936; reissued by  Octagon Books, New York, 1969. A collection  of documents on the Faust legend serving as  background for Goethe’s   Faust.   Good source  book. Index.  Ranke, Kurt (ed.),   Folktales of Germany ; translated  by Lotte Baumann; The University of Chicago  Press, Chicago, 1966. Good selection. Part of the  series   Folktales of the   World, under the editorship  of Richard M. Dorson. Notes. Sources. Index.  Simpson, Jacqueline (ed. and trans.),   Icelandic Folk  Tales and Legends ; revised edition. Dent, London,  2004.  Sturluson, Snorr,   The Prose Edda: Tales from Norse  Mythology, translated by Jean I. Young ; University  of California, Berkeley, 1964. A contemporary  translation. Introduction. Notes. Index.  Finnish Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Apo, Satu,   The Narrative World of Finnish Fairy Tales:  Structure, Agency, and Evaluation in Southwest  Finnish Folktales ; Academia Scientiarum Fennica,  Helsinki, 1995. Scholarly study of Finnish tales.  The Kalevala, or Poems of the Kaleva District ; compiled  by Elias Lvnnrot, translated by Francis Peabody  Magoun, Jr.; Harvard University Press, Cam -  bridge, Mass., 1963. A prose translation. The  was the best edition of the work available in  English until the 1988 edition by Eino Friberg.  Introduction. Glossary.  The Old Kalevala and Certain Antecedents ; compiled  by Elias Lönnrot, translated by Francis Peabody  Magoun, Jr.; Harvard University Press, Cam -  bridge, Mass., 1969. An earlier edition of   The  Kalevala   compiled in 1835, translated into prose.  A perfect companion to Magoun’s translations of  the 1849   Kalevala.   Introduction. Glossary.  The Kalevala, Epic of the Finnish People ; translated  by Eino Friberg, introduction by George C.  Schoolfield,   illustrated   by   Björn   Landström;  Otava   Publishing   Company,   Helsinki,   1988.  A one-volume edition of the epic done in the  original meter. Now the best edition of the work  available in English.  Moyne, Ernest J.,   Raising the Wind: The Legend of  Lapland and Finland Wizards in Literature ; Uni -  versity of Delaware Press, Newark, 1981.  Pentikäinen, Juha,   Kalevala Mythology ; Indiana Uni -  versity   Press,   Bloomington,   1999.   Scholarly  study of Finnish   Kalevala.  Slavic Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Afanasiev, compiler,   Russian Fairy Tales ; translated  by Norbert Guterman; Pantheon Books, Inc.,  New York, 1945. The best one-volume edition  of Russian folktales in English. Index.  Azadovskii, Mark Konstantinovich,   A Siberian Tale  Teller ;   translated   by   James   R.   Dow   with   an  introduction by Robert A. Georges; Center for  Intercultural Studies in Folklore and Ethnomu -  sicology, Austin, 1974. The first translation into  English of the German publication   Eine sibirische  Märchenerzählerin   (1926). Azadovskii’s new the -  ories of the “narrator complex” are exemplified  through the tales of his Siberian informant, N.  O. Vinokurova.  Cooper, D. L. (ed.),   Traditional Slovak Folktales Col -  lected by Pavol Dobšinský ; M. E. Sharpe, Armonk,  N.Y., 2001. Small selection of Slovak Tales.  Curcija-Prodanovic, Nada,   Heroes of Serbia ; Oxford  University Press, London, 1963. Folk ballads  retold by the author in prose.  Curtin, Jeremiah (ed.),   Myths and Folktales of the Rus -  sians, Western Slavs, and Magyars ; Little, Brown  1086   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1104 ===
and Co., Boston, 1890. Interesting collection of  folktales. Notes. Good introduction.  Dixon-Kennedy, Mike,   Encyclopedia of Russian and  Slavic   Myth   and   Legend ;   ABC-CLIO,   Santa  Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England), 1998.  Good   entries   on   all   Slavic   cultures,   as   well  as some related but not Slavic: Balto-Slavic,  Hungarian, Armenian, etc. The culture area is  identified for each entry, e.g., Russia, Ukraine,  and there are cross-references in the text. There  are also several appendices: glossary of terms,  Cyrillic to Latin transliterations, the rulers of  Russia, and a topic finder, as well as a general  index.  Guerney, Bernard Guilbert (ed.),   A Treasury of Rus -  sian Literature ; Vanguard Press, New York, 1943.  Excellent anthology, containing a complete ver -  sion of the epic   The Lay of Igor’s Army   as well as  excerpts from the Ilya Muromets legends.  Khononenko, Natalie,   Slavic Folklore: A Handbook ;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2007. One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Krylov, Ivan,   Fables ; translated by Bernard Pares;  Harcourt, Brace and Co., New York, n.d. A  complete edition of one of the best writers of  Aesopic fables. Introduction. No index.  Lord, Albert,   The Singer of Tales ; Atheneum, New  York, 1968. The work begins with the simple  statement: “This book is about Homer,” and  utilizes the South Slavic epic song tradition to  address the matter of the oral-formulaic theory.  Machal, Jan,   Slavic Mythology ; Vol. 3 in   The Mythol -  ogy of All Races ; The Marshall Jones Co., Boston,  1918; reissued by Cooper Square Publishers,  Inc., New York, 1964. Useful for much infor -  mation. Bibliography. No index, except in last  volume of complete set.  Massie, Suzanne,   Land of the Firebirds: The Beauty of  Old Russia ; Simon and Schuster, New York, 1980.  Beautifully illustrated book on Russian folklore.  Mijatovies, Csedomille (ed., and trans.),   Serbian Folk -  lore ; Benjamin Bloom, Inc., New York, 1968; reis -  sue of 1874 edition. A collection of folktales.  Obolensky, Dimitri (ed.),   The Penguin Book of Russian  Verse ; Penguin Books, England, 1962. Russian  texts and prose translations at the bottom of  the page. Contains   The Lay of Igor’s Army,   some  byliny,   and a selection of Ivan Krylov’s fables.  Oinas, Felix,   Essays on Russian Folklore and Mythology ;  Slavica, Columbus, Ohio, 1985. Collection of  scholarly studies.  Oinas,   Felix,   and   Stephen   Soudakoff   (eds.   and  trans.),   The Study of Russian Folklore ; Mouton,  The Hague, 1975. Basic presentation of the  study of Russian folklore.  Petrovitch, Woislav M.,   Hero Tales and Legends of the  Serbians ; George G. Harrap & Co., Ltd., Lon -  don, 1914. A collection of tales, prose ballads,  and folklore. Glossary. Index.  Prioom V. Ia.,   Theory and History of Folklore ; Univer -  sity of Texas Press, Austin, 1984.  Propp, V. Ia.,   The Morphology of the Folktale ; 2nd ed.:  University of Texas Press, Austin, 1968. The  primary   source   for   structural   studies   of   folk  narratives.  Ransome, Arthur (ed.),   Old Peter’s Russian Tales ; T.  C. and E. C. Jack, Ltd., London, 1916; reissued  by Dover Publications, Inc., New York, 1969.  Many of the tales are from Afanasiev’s collec -  tions, but the editor has often softened them or  changed the endings.  Simonov, Pyotr,   Essential Russian Mythology: Stories  that Change the World ; Thorsons, London, 1997.  Retelling of Slavic myths, and suggestions for  further reading.  Vitez, Zorica,   Croatian Folk Culture at the Crossroads  of   Worlds   and   Eras ;   Gallery   Klovi   evi   dvori,  Zagreb, 2000.  Zenkovsky, Serge A. (ed.),   Medieval Russia’s Epics,  Chronicles, and Tales ; a Dutton Paperback, E. P.  Dutton, Inc., New York, 1974. A massive collec -  tion of hard-to-find material in English transla -  tion. Includes a generous selection from   The Tale  of Bygone Years   and a complete version of   The Lay  of Igor’s Army.   Good introduction. Notes.  Zimmerman,   Zora   Devrnja,   Serbian   Folk   Poetry:  Ancient Legends, Romantic Songs ; Kosovo Publish -  ing Company, Columbus, Ohio, 1986. Excellent  source for Serbian folk epic; includes good bib -  liography and an extensive index.  Asian Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Bonnefoy,   Yvea,   Asian   Mythologies ;   University   of  Chicago Press, Chicago, 1991.  Claus, Peter J., Margaret Mills, and Sarah Diamond,  South Asian Folklore: An Encyclopedia ; Routledge,  New York, 2004.  Annotated Bibliography   1087

=== 페이지 1105 ===
Hangin, John Gombojab, et al.,   Mongolian Folklore:  A Representative Collection from the Oral Literary  Tradition ; Indiana University Press, Bloomington,  1998.  Kim, Dong-sung,   Long, Long Time Ago ; Hollym  Corporation, Elisabeth, N.J., 1997.  Knappert, Jan,   Malay Myths and Legends ; Heinemann  Educational Books, Kuala Lumpur, 1980.  Korom, Frank J.,   South Asian Folklore: A Handbook ;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2006. One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Milne, A. R. (trans.),   Mr. Basket Knife and other  Khmer Folktales ; George Allen and Unwin Ltd.,  London, 1972.  Rutter, Owen,   The Dragon of Kinabalu and Other Bor -  neo Stories ; PACOS Trust, Kota Kinabalu, 2002.  Sakya, Karna, and Linda Griffith,   Tales of Kath -  mandu: Folktales of the Himalayan Kingdom of  Nepal.   Mandala Book Point, Kathmandu, 1992.  Savill, Sheila,   The Orient: Pears Encyclopedia of Myths  and Legends ; Pelham Books, London, 1977.  Timpanelli, Giola,   Tales from the Roof of the World:  Folktales of Tibet ; Viking Press, New York, 1984.  Tossa, Wajuppa,   Phya Khankhaak, the Toad King: A  Translation of an Isan Fertility Myth into English  Verse ;   Bucknell   University   Press,   Lewisburg,  Pa., 1996.  Zong In-S.b,   Folk Tales from Korea ; collected and  translated with an introduction; Hollym Inter -  national Corp., Elizabeth, N.J., 1982.  Hindu Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Atharva-Veda, Hymns of the, translated by Maurice  Bloomfield ; Volume 42 of the   Sacred Books of the  East ; Oxford University Press, 1897. Reprinted  by Motilal Banarsidass, India, 1964. The hymns,  plus extracts from the ritual books and commen -  taries. The translation is somewhat awkward.  Introduction. Notes.  Beck, Brenda E. F., et al. (eds.),   Folktales of India ;  University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1987.  One of the volumes in the series   Folktales of the  World.   The present collection contains extensive  notes. Index of Motifs and Index of Tale Types.  Bibliography. General index.  Bhagavadgita, The Sanatsugatiya, and the Anugita ;  translated by Kashinath Trimbak Telang; Vol -  ume 8 of the   Sacred Books of the East ; Oxford  University Press, 1882. Reprinted by Motilal  Banarsidass, India, 1965. Three important texts,  the most important being the   Bhagavadgita.  Bhagavad-Gita:   The   Song   Celestial ;   translated   by  Edwin Arnold from the Sanskrit text into Eng -  lish verse; The Heritage Press, New York, 1965.  A modern edition of the classic 19th-century  translation in blank verse. Introduction by Shri  Sri Prakasa.  Blackburn, Stuart, Peter J. Claus, Joyce B. Flueck -  igere, and Susan S. Wadley (eds.),   Oral Epics in  India ; University of California Press, Berkeley,  1989.  Claus, Peter J., Brenda E. F. Beck, J. Handoo, and  P.   Goswami,   Folktales   of   India ;   University   of  Chicago Press, Chicago, 1987. One of the vol -  umes in the series   Folktales of the World   under  the editorship of Richard M. Dorson. The pres -  ent collection contains extensive notes. Index  of motifs and index of tale types. Bibliography.  General index.  Dandin’s   Dasha-Kumara-Charita:   The   Ten   Princes ;  translated by Arthur W. Ryder from the San -  skrit;   University   of   Chicago   Press,   Chicago,  1927. A modern translation of a classic Indian  collection of tales.  Das, Tulasi,   The Holy Lake of the Acts of Rama;   trans -  lated by W. Douglas; Oxford University Press,  London, 1952. A classic Hindu retelling of the  epic of Rama. Appendix listing the main charac -  ters in the epic.  Dimmitt, Cornelia, and J. A. B. van Buitenen,   Clas -  sical Hindu Mythology: A Reader in the Sanskrit  Puranas ; Temple University Press, Philadelphia,  1978. Excellent collection of myths. Glossary.  Notes   on   sources.   Bibliography   of   Sanskrit  Puranas. Index.  Dowson, John,   A Classical Dictionary of Hindu Mythol -  ogy and Religion, Geography, History and Literature ;  Turbner’s Oriental Series, Routledge & Kegan,  London, 1878. Excellent A-to-Z guide to Hindu  mythology and legend.  Gaer, Joseph,   The Fables of India ; Little, Brown and  Co., Boston, 1955. An excellent collection of tales  from   The Panchatantra,   The Hitopadesa,   The Jata -  kas.   Good introduction. Annotated bibliography.  Hindu   Scriptures,   translated   by   R.   C.   Zaehner;  Everyman’s Library, London, 1966. A selection  of hymns from the   Rig-Veda,   the   Atharva-Veda,  1088   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1106 ===
the   Upanishads,   and the complete   Bhagavad-Gita.  Difficult reading, and a rather heavy translation  of the texts. Zaehner’s edition replaces the ear -  lier Hindu Scriptures edited by Nicol Macnicol  (1938), which had a different emphasis.  Institutes of Vishnu,   translated by Julius Jolly; Vol -  ume 7 of the   Sacred Books of the East ; Oxford  University   Press,   1880;   reprinted   by   Motilal  Banarsidass, India, 1965. The   Vishnu-smriti,   or  Vaishnava Dharmasastra,   is a collection of ancient  aphorisms on the sacred laws of India. Part 1  contains a discussion between the god Vishnu  and the earth goddess. Difficult reading.  Ions, Veronica,   Indian Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn, Lon -  don, 1967. A concise, well-illustrated book on  Hindu mythology. In addition to Hindu mythol -  ogy, there is a section on Buddhist mythology  and Jain mythology.  Islam, Mazharul,   A History of Folktale Collection in  Indian and Pakistan ; Bangla Academy, Dhaka,  1970.  Jacobs, Joseph (ed.),   Indian Fairy Tales ; David Nutt,  London, 1892; reissued by Dover Publications,  Inc., New York, 1969. Popular collection of  folktales. Notes and references at back of vol -  ume to show relationship to similar folk tales  throughout the world.  Kahn, Shamsuzzaman,   Folklore of Bangladesh ; Bangla  Academy, Dhaka, 1987.  The Laws of Manu,   translated by G. Bühler; Vol -  ume 25 of the   Sacred Books of the East ; Oxford  University   Press,   1886;   reprinted   by   Motilal  Banarsidass, India, 1964. An important book of  Hindu thought with a long introduction. Aside  from the   Manu   text, it contains extracts from  seven commentaries.  The Mahabharata ; edited by Chakravarthi V. Nara -  simhan; Columbia University Press, New York,  1965. An English-language version based on  selected   verses.   Introduction.   Genealogical  tables. Glossary. Index of verses on which the  English prose version is based.  The   Mahabharata   of   Krishna-Dwaipayana   Vyasa,  translated by Pratap Chandra Roy; reissued by  Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers, India, 1974.  Complete translation in 12 volumes done in the  19th century.  O’Flaherty, Wendy Doniger (ed. and trans.),   Hindu  Myths: A Sourcebook Translated from the Sanskrit ;  Penguin Books, Baltimore, 1975. Excellent col -  lection of Hindu myths with a very good intro -  duction. Selected bibliography. Notes. Glossary.  Index of proper names.  The Ramayan of Valmiki,   translated into English verse  by Ralph T. H. Griffith; The Chowkhamba San -  skrit Series Office, India, 1963. A reprint of the  complete translation published between 1870 and  1875. The poetics of the translation often have  leave much to be desired. Introduction. Notes.  The   Ramayana   of   Valmiki,   edited   and   translated  by Hari Prasad Shastri; Shantisadan, London,  1962. Complete prose translation of the epic in  three volumes. The best English edition avail -  able. Appendixes and glossaries.  Rigveda, The Hymns of the,   edited and translated by  Ralph T. H. Griffith; 1896; reissued by Motilal  Banarsidass, Delhi, India, 1973. A reissue, edited  by J. L. Shastri, of a complete translation (with  notes) of the hymns of the   Rig-Veda.   Appen -  dixes. Index of hymns according to deities and  subjects. Index.  Stutley, James, and Margaret Stutley,   A Dictionary of  Hinduism: Its Mythology, Folklore and Development  1500   b . C .– a . d.   1500 ; Routledge & Kegan Paul,  London and Henley, 1977. Dictionary length  entries and cross-references following the entry.  Bibliography and a special section on “English  Subjects and their Sanskrit Equivalents.”  Thompson, Stith, and Jonas Balys,   The Oral Tales of  India ; Indiana University Press, Bloomington,  1958. A good collection of tales from India.  Index of Motifs and Index of Tale Types.  The Upanishads,   translated by F. Max Müller; Volumes  1 and 15 of the   Sacred Books of the East ; Oxford  University Press, 1879 and 1884; reprinted by  Motilal Banarsidass, India, 1965. A long intro -  duction and 12 Upanishads in a stiff, awkward  translation.  Vedanta-Sutras,   translated by George Thibaut; Vol -  umes 34, 38, and 48 in the   Sacred Books of the  East ; Oxford University Press, 1904; reprinted by  Motilal Banarsidass, India, 1962. The   Vedanta-  Sutras   with commentary by Sankaracarya and  a book-length introduction in volumes 34 and  38. Volume 48 contains the   Vedanta-Sutras   with  the commentary by Ramanuja. Myth and legend  scattered throughout but very difficult reading.  Vedic Hymns,   translated by Max Müller and Her -  mann Oldenberg, Volumes 32 and 46 in the  Sacred Books of the East ; Oxford University Press,  Annotated Bibliography   1089

=== 페이지 1107 ===
1891; reprinted by Motilal Banarsidass, India,  1964. Volume 32, with a long introduction and  copious notes by Max Müller, contains hymns  to the Maruts, Rudra, Vayu, and Vata. Volume  46 contains hymns to Agni. The translations in  both cases are stiff and awkward.  Weber, Max,   The Religion of India ; The Free Press,  New York, 1958. A study of the sociology of  Hinduism and Buddhism. Notes. Index.  Wilkins, W. J.,   Hindu Mythology: Vedic and Puranic ;  Curzon Press, London, and Rowman & Little -  field, Totowa, N.J., 1973. Reissue of 1892 edi -  tion. Popular retelling of Hindu mythology and  legend. Illustrated. Index.  Wilson,   Epiphanius   (ed.),   Hindu   Literature ;   The  Colonial Press, New York, 1900. An anthology  containing   The Book of Good Counsels,   the “Nala  and Damayanti’   ” episode from the epic   Mahab -  harata,   the drama   Sakoontala,   and a shortened  version of the epic poem,   The Ramayana.  Buddhist Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Burtt, E. A. (ed.),   The Teachings of the Compassionate  Buddha ; New American Library, Mentor Books,  New York, 1966. Excellent collection of original  texts in English translation with a commentary.  Introduction.  Carus, Paul,   The Gospel of Buddha :   Compiled from  Ancient Records ; The Open Court Publishing  Co.,   LaSalle,   Ill.,   1894   (numerous   reprints).  A classic retelling of the life and teaching of  the Buddha, strung together, and written in  a pseudo-biblical style. Contains many of the  important legends associated with Buddha’s life.  Glossary of names and terms.  Conze, Edward (ed. and trans.),   Buddhist Scriptures ;  Penguin Books, Baltimore, 1959. An excellent  collection and translation of important Buddhist  texts. Introduction. Sources. Glossary.  ———,   Buddhist   Texts   Through   the   Ages ;   Bruno  Cassier,   Oxford,   1954;   reissued   by   Harper  Torchbooks, New York, 1964. A collection of  various Buddhist texts from a variety of sources.  Introduction. Bibliography. Glossary.  Coomaraswamy, Ananada,   Buddha and the Gospel of  Buddhism ; University Books, New Hyde Park,  N.Y., 1964; reissue of 1916 volume. A popular,  classic study of the entire realm of Buddhism.  Bibliography. Glossary. Index.  Cowell, E. B. (ed. and trans.),   Buddhist Mahayana  Texts ; Volume 49 of the   Sacred Books of the East ;  Oxford   University   Press,   1894;   reissued   by  Motilal Banarsidass, India, 1965. A collection  of various original texts in English translation.  Notes. Introduction.  The Dhammapada ; translated by P. Lal; Farrar, Straus  & Giroux, New York, 1967. A translation from  the   Pali   text.   Excellent   introduction.   Select  bibliography.  Getty, Alice,   The Gods of Northern Buddhism ; Oxford  University Press, 1928; reissued by Charles E.  Tuttle Co., Rutland, Vt., 1962. A fully illus -  trated study of the history, iconography, and  development of various Buddhist deities, with  explanations of various Sanskrit words used in  the text. Index.  Humphreys, Christmas,   Buddhism ; Penguin Books,  Middlesex,   England,   1951.   A   short,   popular  study of the vast subject with illustrations. Bibli -  ography. Glossary. Index.  The Jataka, or Stories of the Buddha’s Former Births ;  edited by E. B. Cowell; reissued by Cosmo  Publications, India, 1973 of 1895 edition. A  six-volume set, translated by different hands, of  all of the fables relating to the Buddha’s former  lives. A must for the folklore of Buddhism. Index  in volume 6 of the entire set.  Ling, Trevor,   The Buddha: Buddhist Civilization in  India and Ceylon ; Charles Scribner’s Sons, New  York, 1973. A modern life of the Buddha that  attempts, not too successfully, to interpret the  social and religious background of the time.  Notes. Index.  Rhys, T. W. (ed. and trans.),   Buddhist Suttas ; Volume  11 of the   Sacred Books of the East ; Oxford Univer -  sity Press, 1881; reissued by Motilal Banarsidass,  India, 1965. A collection of short texts, originally  in Pali. Introduction. Notes. Index.  Roveda, Vittorio,   Khmer Mythology: Secrets of Angkor ;  Weatherhill, N.Y., 1998. An illustrated presenta -  tion of relief sculptures of the Khmer in Cam -  bodia. Maps.  The Tibetan Book of the Dead ; edited by W. Y. Evans-  Wentz; Oxford University Press, London, 1960.  Popular edition of one of the standard texts on  dying and Buddhism.  Waddell, L. Austin,   The Buddhism of Tibet, or Lama -  ism ; W. H. Allen & Co., London, 1895; reissued  by Dover Books, New York, 1971, under the title  1090   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1108 ===
Tibetan   Buddhism.   An   illustrated,   turn-of-the-  century study of the “mystic cults, symbolism  and mythology’   ” of Tibetan Buddhism. Index.  Warren, Henry Clarke (ed. and trans.),   Buddhism  in Translations ; Harvard University Press, Cam -  bridge,   Mass.,   1896;   reissued   by   Atheneum,  New York, 1972. An excellent translation of  original sources in Pali. No index.  Chinese Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Birch,   Cyril,   Chinese   Myths   and   Fantasies ;   H.   Z.  Walck, New York, 1961.  Birrell, Anne,   Chinese Mythology: An   Introduction ;  Johns   Hopkins   University   Press,   Baltimore,  1993. Includes bibliographical references and a  general index.  ———,   Chinese Myths ; University of Texas Press,  Austin,   2000.   Published   in   cooperation   with  British   Museum   Press.   Includes   illustrations,  bibliographical references, and a general index.  Chai, Ch’u, and Winbert Chi (eds. and trans.),   The  Sacred Books of Confucius and Other Confucian  Classics ; Bantam Books, Inc., New York, 1965.  Contemporary and useful translation of some  of the major texts. A help in understanding the  background of much Chinese belief.  Christie, Anthony,   Chinese Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn,  London, 1968. Excellent study with numerous  illustrations. Bibliography. Index.  Dennys,   N.   B.,   The   Folk-Lore   of   China   and   its  Affinities with That of the Aryan and Semitic Races ;  Trubner and Co., London, 1876; reissued by  Tower   Books,   Detroit,   1971.   An   interesting  work dealing with such subjects as birth, mar -  riage, and death as well as superstitions, ghosts,  witchcraft, and demonology. Index.  Eberhard, Wolfram (ed.),   Folktales of China ; trans -  lated by Desmond Parsons; University of Chi -  cago Press, Chicago, 1965. One of the volumes  in the series   Folktales of the World   under the  editorship of Richard M. Dorson. Many of the  tales in this collection originally appeared in  Chinese Fairy and Folk Tales.   The present collec -  tion contains extensive notes. Index of Motifs.  Bibliography. General index.  Ferguson, John C.,   Chinese Mythology ; Volume 8  in the   Mythology of All Races ; Marshall Jones  Co., Boston, 1928; reissued by Cooper Square  Publishers, New York, 1964. A short study, with  numerous illustrations, giving a general view of  Chinese mythology. Bibliography. Index only in  last volume of the complete set.  Legge, James (ed. and trans.),   The Sacred Books of  China ; Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1891; reissued  by Motilal Banarsidass, Delhi, India, 1966. These  six volumes contain translations of the texts of  Confucianism and Taoism. The Confucian texts  are the   Shû King,   the religious portions of the  Shih King,   the   Hsiâo King,   the   Yî King,   and the   Ki  Ki.   The Taoist texts are the   Tao Teh King,   the writ -  ings of Kwang-Tze (Chuang-Tsu) ,   and the   Thai-  Shang Tractate of Actions and Their Retributions.  Extensive notes. Introduction. Various indexes.  Mackenzie, Donald A.,   Myths of China and Japan ;  Gramercy Books, New York, 1994. Good selec -  tion of folk tales.  Palmer, Martin, and Zhao Ziaomin, with Joanne  O’Brien   and   James   Palmer;   Essential   Chinese  Mythology ; Thorsons, London and San Fran -  cisco, 1997. General overview of the subject.  General index.  Roberts, Moss (ed. and trans.),   Chinese Fairy Tales  and Fantasies ; Pantheon Books, New York, 1979.  A popular collection of various types of tales  found in China. Introduction. Sources.  Smith, D. Howard,   Chinese Religions from 1000   b . C .  to the Present ; Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New  York, 1968. General overview of a complex sub -  ject. Glossary. Index.  Weber, Max,   The Religion of China ; The Free Press,  New York, 1951. A sociological study of Confu -  cianism and Taoism. Notes. Index.  Werner, E. T. C.,   A Dictionary of Chinese Mythology ;  Kelley and Walsh, Ltd., Shanghai, 1932; reis -  sued by The Julian Press, New York, 1961. A  standard work in the field, but one that must be  used with extreme caution because it contains  numerous mistakes. Bibliography.  ———,   Myths and Legends of China ; Arno Press, A New  York Times Company, 1976; reissue of the 1922  edition. Chinese myths and legends in a popular  style for the general reader. Introduction. Index.  Williams, C. A. S.,   Outlines of Chinese Symbolism  and Art Motives ; Kelly and Walsh, Ltd., Shang -  hai, 1941; reissued by Charles E. Tuttle Co.,  Rutland, Vt., and Tokyo, 1974. This popular  study, illustrated with line drawings from vari -  ous sources, is an alphabetical listing of various  legends, gods, customs, etc. Index.  Annotated Bibliography   1091

=== 페이지 1109 ===
Wilhelm, Richard (ed.),   Chinese Folktales ; translated  by Ewald Osers; G. Bell & Sons, London, 1971.  Good selection of tales. Notes.  Wilson, Epiphanius (ed.),   Chinese Literature ; The  Colonial Press, New York, 1900. An anthology  containing   The Analects of Confucius, The Sayings  of Mencius, The Shi-King, The Travels of Fa-Hien  in 19th-century translations.  Wu Ch’eng-en,   Monkey ; translated by Arthur Waley;  The John Day Co., New York, 1943. The classic  English translation, shortened from the original,  of the classic Chinese novel that contains so  much folklore and mythology.  Japanese Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Anesaki,   Masaharu,   History   of   Japanese   Religion ;  Kegan   Paul,   Trench,   Trübner   &   Co.,   Lon -  don, 1930; reissued by Charles E. Tuttle Co.,  Rutland, Vt., and Tokyo, 1963. A classic study  of Japanese religious beliefs with emphasis on  Shinto practices.  Czaja, Michael,   Gods of Myth and Stone: Phallicism in  Japanese Folk Religion ; Weatherhill, Tokyo and  New York, 1974. A very thorough study of vari -  ous Shinto deities worshiped in Japan. Illustra -  tions. Notes. Bibliography.  Harland, Davis, F.,   The Myths and Legends of Japan ;  Dover   Publications,   New   York,   1992.   Good  selection of tales from Japan.  Hearn,   Lafcadio,   Kwaidan:   Stories   and   Studies   of  Strange Things ; The Shimbi Shoin, Ltd., Tokyo,  1932 (for the Limited Editions Club); reissued  by Dover Publications, New York, 1968. A clas -  sic collection of Japanese ghost tales with an  introduction by Oscar Lewis and illustrations by  Yasumasa Fujita.  Joly, Henri L.,   Legend in Japanese Art ; John Lane,  The   Bodley   Head,   London,   1908;   reissued  by Charles E. Tuttle Co., Rutland, Vt., and  Tokyo, 1967. An A-to-Z listing of over a 1,000  figures, etc., from myth, legend, and folklore  in Japan, with 700 illustrations. Generally an  invaluable guide, though weak in entries on  mythology.  Kiej’e,   Nikolas   (compiler),   Japanese   Grotesqueries ;  Charles E. Tuttle Co., Rutland, Vt., and Tokyo,  1973. A collection of Japanese prints of various  demons and spirits, with short comments. Help -  ful introduction by Terence Barrow.  Kojiki ; edited and translated by Donald L. Philippi;  Princeton University Press and University of  Tokyo Press, 1969. A modern, up-to-date trans -  lation of a classic text on Japanese mythology.  Long introduction. Glossary of over 200 pages.  A must for any study of Japanese mythology.  Ko-Ji-Ki: Records of Ancient Matters, edited and trans -  lated by Basil H. Chamberlain ; Lane, Crawford  & Co., Kelly & Co., Yokohama, 1883. One of  the main original sources for Japanese mythol -  ogy in a rather stiff translation that avoids the  “obscene” passages of the work.  McAlpine, Helen and Wiliam,   Japanese Tales and  Legends ; Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1958.  A collection of epic and legends retold, includ -  ing   Tales of the Heike.   Glossary.  Naito, Hirshi (ed.),   Legends of Japan ; Chales E. Tut -  tle, Rutland, Vt., 1972. Small but good selection  of tales from Japan.  Nibongi: Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Times to  a . d .   697,   edited and translated by W. G. Aston;  Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner & Co., London,  1896; reissued by Allen and Unwin, London,  1956.   An   original   source   book   of   Japanese  mythology, forming with the   Kojiki   the main  source for the study of Japanese mythology.  Ozaki, Yei Theodora (compiler),   The Japanese Fairy  Book ; Archibald Constable & Co., Ltd., 1903;  reissued   by   Dover   Publications,   New   York,  1967. An excellent collection of Japanese folk -  tales compiled at the suggestion of the folklorist  Andrew Lang, the great compiler of folktales in  19th-century England.  Piggott,   Juliet,   Japanese   Mythology ;   Paul   Ham -  lyn, London, 1969. A fully illustrated study of  Japanese mythology and legend. Bibliography.  Index.  Redesdale, Lord (ed.),   Tales of Old Japan ; Macmillan  and Co., Ltd., London, 1908. A popular collec -  tion of Japanese tales from various sources.  Seki, Keigo (ed.),   Folktales of Japan ; translated by  Robert J. Adams; University of Chicago Press,  Chicago, 1965. One of the volumes in the series  Folktales of the World   under the editorship of  Richard M. Dorson. The present collection con -  tains extensive notes. Index of Motifs and Index  of Tale Types. Bibliography. General index.  Ury, Marian (trans.),   Tales of Times Now Past: Sixty-  Two   Stories   from   a   Medieval   Japanese   Collec -  tion ; University of California Press, Berkeley,  1092   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1110 ===
1979. An interesting collection of tales, cho -  sen from over 1,000 in the collection. Good  introduction.  American Indian  Mythologies  Alvarado, Pedro de,   An Account of the Conquest of Guate -  mala in 1524,   translated by Sedley J. Mackie; The  Cortes Society, New York, 1924. A classic Spanish  study of the encounter of Christianity with Native  American beliefs. Notes. Bibliography.  Bemeister, Margaret,   Thirty Indian Legends of Canada,  Douglas & McIntyre, Vancouver, B.C., 1973.  Beauchamp, William M.   Iroquois Folk Lore Gathered  from the Six Nations of New York ; Dehler Press,  Syracuse, 1922.  Benedict, Ruth,   Zuni Mythology ; Columbia Univer -  sity Press, New York, 1935. Excellent study of  the narratives told by the Zuni. In this work,  Ruth Benedict documents that some tales “tally  with” with Zuni culture and others do not.  Bierhorst, John,   History and Mythology of the Aztecs:  The Codex Chimalpopoca ; University of Arizona  Press, Tucson, 1992.  Boccara, Michel.   Encyclopédie de la mythologie Maya  Yucatèque: Les Labyrinths sonores ; Editions Duc -  tus, Paris, 1997.  Burland, C. A.,   The Gods of Mexico ; Eyre & Spottis -  woode, London, 1967. A concise and informa -  tive treatment of a very complex subject. Short  annotated bibliography. Index.  Burland, Cottie,   North American Indian Mythology ;  Paul Hamlyn, London, 1965. An excellent short,  illustrated volume on the subject. Bibliography.  Index.  Burland,   Cottie,   and   Werner   Forman,   Feathered  Serpent and Smoking Mirror ; Orbis Publishing,  London, 1975. An beautifully illustrated volume  on the Mesoamerican gods and myths. Glossary.  Chronology. Bibliography. Index.  Burr,   Hartley,   North   American   Indian   Mythology ;  Volume 10 of   The Mythology of All Races ; Mar -  shall Jones Company, Boston, 1916; reissued by  Cooper Square Publishers, New York, 1964. A  discussion of North American Indian mythology  by area, such as the Far North, etc. Introduc -  tion. Notes. Bibliography.  Cascudo,   Luís   da   Câmara,   Dicionário   do   Folclore  Brasileiro ; 6th edition. Belo Horizonte, Itatiaia,  [1954] 1988.  Clark, Cora, and Texa Bowen Williams (eds.),   Pomo  Indian Myths and Some of Their Sacred Meanings ;  Vantage Press, Inc., New York, 1954. A diverse  collection of myths and legends as well as some  native Indian explanations of their meanings.  Clements, William M.,   Native American Verbal Art:  Texts and Contexts ; University of Arizona Press,  Tuscon, 1996. Excellent study of Native Ameri -  can folklore; includes good bibliography and  index.  Converse, Harriet,   Myths and Legends of the New York  State Iroquois ; New York State Museum Bul -  letins, No. 125.  Cuevas, Lou,   Apache Legends ; Naturegraph, Happy  Camp, Calif., 1991.  Curtin, Jeremiah (ed.),   Myths of the Modocs: Indian  Legends of the Northwest ; Benjamin Blom, Inc.,  New York, 1971; reissue of 1912 edition. An early  collection of tales by a famous collector. Notes.  Curtin, Jeremiah,   Creation Myths of Primitive Amer -  ica ; edited with an introduction by Karl Kroeber,  ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford  (England), 2002. Translations of Native Ameri -  can myths recorded in the 19th century. Cross-  references and a general index.  Dixon-Kennedy, Mike,   Native American Myth and  Legend: An A-Z of People and Places ; Blandford,  London, 1996. Dictionary-length entries, maps  and a brief bibliography.  Durán, Fray Diego,   Book of the Gods and Rites   and   The  Ancient Calendar ; translated by Fernando Horca -  sitas and Doris Heyden; University of Oklahoma  Press, Norman, 1971. A must. A Christian view  of the ancient rites, but filled with rich informa -  tion. Glossary. Bibliography. Index.  ———,   The History of the Indies of New Spain ; trans -  lated by Doris Heyden and Fernando Horcasi -  tas; Orion Press, New York, 1964. Eyewitness  account by a Spanish priest who attempts to  understand Native American religious beliefs  and rites. Bibliography. Index.  Feldmann, Susan (ed.),   The Storytelling Stone: Tra -  ditional Native American Myths and Tales ; Laurel  Books, New York, 1965.  Gill, Sam D. and Irene F. Sullivan,   Dictionary of  Native American Mythology ; ABC-CLIO, Santa  Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England), 1992.  Dictionary-length entries, black-and-white pic -  tures and illustrations, maps, bibliography and a  very useful index by tribe.  Annotated Bibliography   1093

=== 페이지 1111 ===
Goodwin, Grenville,   Myths and Tales of the White  Mountain Apache ; University of Arizona Press,  Tucson, [1930] 1994.  Haile, Father Berard,   Origin Legend of the Navaho  Enemy Way ; Yale University Press, New Haven,  1938.  Hausman, Gerald,   Turtle Island Alphabet: A Lexi -  con of Native American Symbols and Culture ; St.  Martin’s Press, New York, 1992. Illustrations  and bibliography.  Hirschfelder, Arlene, and Paulette Molin,   Encyclope -  dia of Native American Religions ; Facts On File,  Inc., New York, 2000. This is an updated edition  of a 1992 publication, and includes dictionary  length entries. There is also suggestions for  further reading, a subject index and a general  index.  Jones, David M., and Brian L. Molyneaux,   Mythol -  ogy   of   the   American   Nations ;   Hermes   House,  London, 2001.  Laughlin, Robert M.,   The People of the Bat: Mayan  Tales and Dreams from Zinacantán ; Smithsonian  Institution Press, Washington D.C., 1988.  Leland, Charles G. (ed.),   The Algonquin Legends of  New England, or Myths and Folk Lore of the Micmac,  Passamaquoddy, and Penobscot Tribes ; Houghton,  Mifflin and Co., Boston, 1884; reissued by Sing -  ing Tree Press, Detroit, 1968. Classic retellings  done in the 19th century in a stilted and unnatu -  ral English.  Lindquist, Mark A., and Martin Zanger (eds.),   Bur -  ied Roots and Indestructible Seeds: The Survival of  American Life in Story, History and Spirit ; Univer -  sity of Wisconsin Press, Madison, 1993, 1994.  Lyon, William S.,   Encyclopedia of Native American  Shamanism: Sacred Ceremonies of North America ;  ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford  (England), 1998. A continuation of ABC-CLIO’s  Encyclopedia of Native American Healing   (1996),  by the same author. This volume includes maps  locating the various tribes of North America, an  extensive bibliography, with a separate section  on ethnobotany, and a general index.  Macfarlan, Allan A. (ed.),   American Indian Legends ;  The Heritage Press, New York, 1968. A varied  collection, mainly from literary sources but valu -  able. Introduction. Sources.  Malotki, Ekkehart (ed.),   Hopi Ruin Legends: Kiqötu -  tuwutsi ; University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln,  1993.  Marriott, Alice, and Carol K. Rachlin (eds.),   Ameri -  can Indian Mythology ; Thomas Y. Crowell Co.,  New   York,   1968.   An   excellent   collection,  mainly derived from oral sources. Introduction.  Bibliography.  Marriott, Alice, and Carol K. Rachlin,   Plains Indian  Mythology ; Meridian Books, New York, 1975.  Matthews, Washington,   Navaho Legends ; University  of Utah Press, Salt Lake City, [1897] 1994.  McLaughlin, Marie L.,   Myths and Legends of the Sioux ;  Tumbleweed Press, Bismarck, N.Dak., 1974.  Mooney, James, History,   Myths, and Sacred Formulas  of the Cherokee ; Bright Mountain Books, Ashe -  ville, N.C., [1900] 1992.  Mould, Tom,   Choctaw Tales ; University Press of Mis -  sissippi, Jackson, 2004.  Nungak, Zebedee, and Eugene Arima,   Eskimo Sto -  ries—Unikkaatuat ; National Museum of Canada,  Ottawa, 1969.  Opler, Morris Edward,   Myths and Tales of the Lipan  Apache Indians ; Memoirs of the American Folk -  lore Society, No. 31.  ———,   Myths and Tales of the Chiricahua Apache Indi -  ans ; Memoirs of the American Folklore Society,  No. 37.  ———,   Myths and Tales of Jicarilla Apache Indians ;  Memoirs of the American Folklore Society, No.  36.  Palmer, Gus, Jr.,   Telling Stories the Kiowa Way ; Uni -  versity of Arizona Press, Tucson, 2003.  Parsons, Elsie Clews,   Kiowa Tales ; Memoirs of the  American Folklore Society, No. 22.  Popul Vuh: The Sacred Book of the Ancient Quiché  Maya ; edited and translated by Delia Goetz and  Sylvanus G. Morley; University of Oklahoma  Press, Norman, 1950. An English version by  the editors based on the Spanish translation of  Andrián Recinos. The book is one of the most  important documents for the mythology of the  Maya. This edition contains a long introduction.  Notes. Index.  Radin,   Paul,   The   Trickster:   A   Study   in   American  Indian Mythology ; Philosophical Library, New  York, 1956. A very useful study of the role of the  trickster in North American Indian as well as  other cultures. Commentaries by Karl Kerényi  and C. G. Jung included.  Read, Kay Almere and Jason J. González,   Handbook  of Mesoamerican Mythology ; ABC-CLIO, Santa  Barbara, Denver, and Oxford (England), 2000.  1094   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1112 ===
Particularly useful are the many sources listed  as “Annotated Print and Nonprint Resources,”  which includes books and articles, videos, Web  sites, a reference list, a glossary and a general  index.  Schoolcraft, Henry R. (ed.),   The Myth of Hiawatha  and Other Oral Legends, Mythologic and Allegoric  of the North American Indian ; J. B. Lippincott  & Co., Philadelphia, 1856; reissued by Kraus  Reprint Co., New York, 1971. One of the first  collections in English of North American Indian  myths and legends. However, Schoolcraft made  the mistake of identifying Hiawatha, the histori -  cal personage, with the god Manabozho, calling  them both Hiawatha.  Smith, Erminnie A.   Myths of the Iroquois at the Six  Nations’ Reserve ; Yale University Publications in  Anthropology, No. 65.  Standing Bear, Luther,   Stories of the Sioux ; University  of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, 1988.  Steward, Julian,   Handbook of South American Indians ;  Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin, No.  143.  Swanton, John R.,   Myths and Tales of the Southwest -  ern   Indians ;   Bureau   of   American   Ethnology  Bulletins, No. 88. GPO, Washington, D.C.,  1929.  Taube, Karl A.,   Aztec and Maya Myths ; University of  Texas Press, Austin, 1993. Published in coop -  eration with British Museum Press. Includes  illustrations, an extensive bibliography and a  general index.  Thompson, Stith (ed.),   Tales of the North American  Indians ; Indiana University Press, Bloomington,  1929. A collection of tales including mytho -  logical stories, mythical incidents, trickster tales,  hero tales, journeys to the other world, animal  wives and husbands, miscellaneous tales, tales  borrowed from Europeans, and tales based on  Bible stories. One of the best collections. Intro -  duction. Notes. Bibliography.  Toor, Frances,   Mexican Folkways ; Crown Publishers,  New York, 1947. Excellent collection of cus -  toms, myths, folklore, traditions, etc. Introduc -  tion. Glossary. Index.  Turner,   Frederick   W.   (ed.),   The   Portable   North  American Reader ; The Viking Press, New York,  1973. An excellent anthology with more than  200 pages devoted to North American Indian  myths and legends. Introduction.  Walker, Deward E., Jr., and Daniel N. Matthews,  Blood of the Monster: The Nez Perce Coyote Cycle ;  University of Oklahoma Press, Norman, 1998.  Walker, James,   Lakota Myth ; University of Nebraska  Press, Lincoln, 1983.  Weigle, Marta.   Spiders and Spinsters: Women and  Mythology ;   University   of   New   Mexico   Press,  Albuquerque, 1982.  Wherry, Joseph H.,   Indian Masks and Myths of the  West ; Funk & Wagnalls, New York, 1969. An  interesting, helpful, and understanding account.  Illustrations.   Bibliography.   Index   of   mythical  beings. Index.  Wilbert, Johannes, and Karen Simoneau.   Folk Lit -  erature of South American Indians, General Index ;  UCLA   Latin   American   Center   Publications,  Los Angeles, 1992.  North American Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Abrahams,   Roger,   Afro-American   Folktales:   Stories  from Black Traditions in the New World ; Pantheon  Books, New York, 1985. Excellent collection of  African-American folktales.  Axelrod, Alan, and Harry Oster,   The Penguin Dic -  tionary   of   American   Folklore:   Arts   and   Crafts,  Ballads and Beliefs, Real and Imaginary Heroes ;  Penguin Reference Books, New York, 2000. A  very rich collection of short and long entries,  from definitions and descriptions of terms and  objects. Over 750 entries and 228 photographs  and line drawings.  Botkin, B. A. (ed.),   A Treasury of American Folklore ;  Crown Publishers, New York, 1944. An anthol -  ogy from a variety of sources, most of which were  written not oral, causing Richard Dorson to coin  the term “fakelore” for the Botkin collections.  Index. Botkin also produced other “Treasuries” of  folklore, including collections on Southern Folk -  lore (1949), Western Folklore (1951), the Civil  War (1960), and the Mississippi River (1978).  Brewer, J. Mason (ed.),   American Negro Folklore ;  Quadrangle/The New York Times Book Co.,  New York, 1968. A collection of tales, songs,  superstitions, etc. Index.  Brunvand, Jan Harold,   The Baby Train and Other  Lusty Urban Legends ; Norton, New York and  London, 1993. This only one of many collec -  tions of “urban legends” published by Jan Brun -  vand, but it is of particular importance for the  Annotated Bibliography   1095

=== 페이지 1113 ===
“Type-Index of Urban Legends” included as an  appendix. Here the legends are divided into ten  categories, or types, and include legends about  automobiles,   animals,   horrors,   accidents,   sex  and scandals, business, government, celebrities,  and academics.  Brunvand, Jan Harold (ed.),   American Folklore: An  Encyclopedia ; Garland, New York and London,  1996. One of the new generation of reference  books, with entries written by well-known folk -  lore scholars. There are good cross-references,  limited   references,   and   an   extensive   general  index.  Clough, Ben C. (ed.),   The American Imagination at  Work: Tall Tales and Folk Tales ; Alfred A. Knopf,  New York, 1947. Rich, excellent collection from  a variety of sources. Introduction. Bibliography.  Coffin, Tristram Potter, and Hennig Cohen (eds.),  The Parade of Heroes: Legendary Figures in Ameri -  can   Lore ;   Anchor   Press,   Doubleday,   Garden  City, N.Y., 1978. A selection from the journals  and archives of American folklore and culture.  Notes. Index.  Dorson, Richard M.,   Negro Folktales in Michigan ;  Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass.,  1956.  ———,   American Folklore ; University of Chicago  Press, Chicago, 1959. First standard and schol -  arly work on American folklore.  ———,   Buying the Wind ; University of Chicago  Press, Chicago, 1964. Selection of tales from  various regions and groups in America.  Dresser, Norine,   American Vampires: Fans, Victims  and Practitioners ; Norton, New York, 1989. A  well-documented study of vampire culture in  America,   based   on   personal   interviews   with  practitioners   and   with   medical   doctors   who  explain the need for consuming blood on the  part of some individuals.  Dundes, Alan (ed.),   Mother Wit from the Laughing  Barrel:   Readings   in   the   Interpretation   of   Afro-  American   Folklore ;   University   Press   of   Mis -  sissippi,   Jackson   and   London,   [1973]   1990.  An extensive collection of essays on African-  American folklore covering a wide spectrum of  traditions, folk speech, verbal art, belief, music,  narrative and humor.  Flanagan,   John   T.,   and   Arthur   Palmer   Hudson  (eds.),   The American Folklore Reader: Folklore in  American Literature ; A. S. Barnes & Co., New  York, 1958. A collection of works by American  writers on folklore themes, ranging from the  American Indian to devil tales, witchcraft, liter -  ary ballads, heroes, Yankees, Negro tales, and  folk songs and ballads. Bibliographical notes.  Bibliography. Index of authors and titles.  Fritze, Ronald H.,   Travel Legend and Lore: An Ency -  clopedia ; ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and  Oxford (England), 1998. Legends of fabulous  places, from Atlantis to Vinland. Includes cross  references, illustrations and a general index.  Herrera-Sobek, Maria,   Chicano Folklore: A Handbook;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2006. One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  Hurston, Zora Neale,   Mules and Men ; Harper Peren -  nial, New York, 1990. Reprint of work by an  African-American scholar and novelist.  Lamar, Howard R. (ed.),   The Reader’s Encyclopedia of  the American West ; Thomas Y. Crowell Co., New  York, 1977. An excellent, one-volume encyclo -  pedia, filled with fascinating information, much  regarding American legend.  Lee, Hector,   The Three Nephites: The Substance and  Significance of the Legend in Folklore ; University  of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, 1949. Stan -  dard work on the sudden appearance of helpful  (Mormon) Nephites.  Editors of   Life, The Life Treasury of American Folklore ;  Time, Inc., New York, 1961. A heavily illus -  trated, popular guide to the subject. Index.  Paredes, Américo (ed.),   Folktales of Mexico ; Univer -  sity of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1970. One of the  volumes in the series   Folktales of the World   under  the editorship of Richard M. Dorson. The pres -  ent collection contains extensive notes. Index of  Motifs and Index of Tale Types. Bibliography.  General index.  Reader’s Digest,   American Folklore and Legend ; The  Reader’s Digest Association, Inc., Pleasantville,  N.Y.,   1978.   A   popular,   illustrated   collection  from a variety of sources. Index.  Slatta, Richard W.,   The Mythical West: An Ency -  clopedia   of   Legend,   Lore,   and   Popular   Culture ;  ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, Denver, and Oxford  (England), 2001. Western figures, events, and  places that appear in folk legends, art, literature,  and popular culture. Includes numerous illustra -  tions, a bibliography and general index.  1096   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1114 ===
Stanley, David (ed.),   Folklore in Utah. A History and  Guide to Resources ; Utah State University Press,  Logan, 2004. Includes good bibliography and  index.  Tucker,   Elizabeth,   Campus   Legends:   A   Handbook;  (Greenwood Folklore Handbooks); Greenwood  Press, Westport, Conn., and London, 2005.One  of the volumes in the series   Folklore Handbooks   by  Greenwood Press.  West, J. O.,   Weeping Women: La Llorona, and Other  Stories ;   Bilingual   Press,   Tempe,   Ariz.,   1988.  Excellent monograph on weeping women.  Voodoo  Consentino, Donald J. (ed.),   Sacred Arts of Haitian  Vodou ; UCLA Fowler Museum of Cultural His -  tory, Los Angeles, 1995.  Deren, Maya,   Divine Horsemen: Voodoo Gods of Haiti ;  Chelsea   House   Publishers,   New   York,   1970.  Often interesting, though one may disagree with  many of its theories.  Métraux, Alfred,   Voodoo in Haiti ; Schocken Books,  New York, 1972.  Pelton, Robert W.,   Voodoo Secrets from A to Z ; A. S.  Barnes and Co., South Brunswick, N.J., 1973. A  short A-to-Z listing of voodoo terms. Helpful  for quick reference.  Rigaud, Milo,   Secrets of Voodoo ; translated by Robert  B. Cross; Arco, New York, 1969. A sympathetic  study of the subject. Book lacks an index, making  it difficult for reference.  Wilcken, Louis, and Frisner Augustin,   The Drums  of Vodou ; White Cliffs Media, Tempe, Ariz.,  1992.  Oceanic Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Alpers, Anthony,   Legends of the South Seas: The World  of the Polynesians Seen through Their Myths and  Legends, Poetry and Art ; Thomas Y. Crowell Co.,  New York, 1970. Excellent collection of myths,  relating   to   creation,   heroes,   etc.   References.  Glossary. Index.  Dixon, R. B.,   Oceanic ; Vol. 9,   The Mythology of All  Races ; Marshall Jones Publishing Corp., Boston,  1916; reissued by Cooper Square Publishing,  Inc., New York, 1964. A study, rather stiff, of a  very rich subject. Bibliography.  Grey, George,   Polynesian Mythology ; edited by W.  W. Bird; Taplinger Publishing Co., New York,  n.d. A slightly reedited version of Grey’s 1855  book. Index.  Massola,   Aldo,   Bunjil’s   Cave:   Myths,   Legends   and  Superstitions of the Aborigines of Southeast Aus -  tralia ;   Lansdowne   Press,   Melbourne,   1968.  Myths, legends, and folk beliefs. Introduction.  Glossary.  Parker, K. Langloah (collector),   Australian Legend -  ary Tales ; Bodley Head Ltd., London, 1978. A  volume that combines two collections made by  Parker, one in 1896 and the other in 1898, pub -  lished by David Nutt in London.  Poignant, Roslyn,   Myths and Legends of the South  Seas ; Paul Hamlyn, London, 1970. An excellent  little book covering Melanesia, Micronesia, and  Polynesia. Index.  ———,   Oceanic Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn, London,  1967. A fully illustrated volume covering Poly -  nesia,   Micronesia,   Melanesia,   and   Australia.  Reading list. Index.  Reed, A. W.,   Myths and Legends of Australia ; Taplinger  Publishing Co., New York, 1965. A selection of  myths and legends, creation myths, myths of  the sun, moon, stars, animals, etc. Introduction.  Glossary.  Schmitz, Carl August,   Oceanic Art, Myth, Man and  Images of the South Seas ; translated from the Ger -  man by Norbert Guterman. H. N. Abrams, New  York, 1971. More than 300 illustrations, 50 in  color. Bibliography.  Wannan, Bill.   The Australian: Yarns, Ballads, Legends,  and Traditions of the Australian People ; Rigby,  Adelaide, 1954.  Ward, Russel,   The Australian Legend ; Oxford Uni -  versity Press, Melbourne, 1958.  African Mythology,  Legend, and Folklore  Abrahams, Roger D. (comp. and ed.),   African Folk -  tales ; Pantheon Books, New York, 1993.  Cabrera,   Lydia,   Afro-Cuban   Tales ;   University   of  Nebraska Press, Lincoln, 2004.  Carey, Margaret,   Myths and Legends of Africa ; Paul  Hamlyn, London, 1970. An excellent retelling  of some African folktales. Good introduction.  Courlander, Harold,   Tales of Yoruba Gods and Heroes ;  Fawcett Publications, Inc., New York, 1974. Intel -  ligent collection of Yoruba folklore and customs.  ———,   A Treasure of African Folklore ; Crown Pub -  lishers, Inc., New York, 1975. A collection of  Annotated Bibliography   1097

=== 페이지 1115 ===
the oral literature, traditions, myths, legends,  epics, tales, recollections, wisdom, sayings and  humor of Africa. Brief bibliography and index  included.  Deren, Maya,   Divine Horsemen: The Living Gods of  Haiti ; McPherson, Kingston N.Y., [1953] 1983.  Dorson, Richard (ed.),   African Folklore ; Doubleday,  Garden City, N.Y., 1972. Scholarly treatment  of folklore concepts applied to oral traditions of  Africa. Introduction.  Finnegan, Ruth,   Oral Literature in Africa ; Oxford  University Press, Oxford, 1970.  Feya, Abayomi,   Fourteen Hundred Cowries and Other  African Tales ; Washington Square Press, New  York, 1971. Detailed retellings of the Yoruba  people’s West African tales.  Haring, Lee,   Verbal Art in Madagascar: Performance  in Historical Perspective ; University of Pennsylva -  nia Press, Philadelphia, 1992.  Herskovits, Melville J. and Frances,   Dahomean Nar -  rative: A Cross-Cultural Analysis ; Northwestern  University Press, Evanston, 1958. A collection  of folktales with a very long introduction of over  100 pages.  Parrinder, Geoffrey,   African Mythology ; Paul Hamlyn  Group, Ltd., London, 1967. Valuable book for  those not familiar with the vast scope of African  mythology. Bibliography. Index.  Scheub, Harold,   A Dictionary of African Mythology:  The Mythmaker as Storyteller ; Oxford University  Press, Oxford and New York, 2000. Very useful  listing of myths in three appendices, by country,  by language and culture, and by topics such as  “Beginnings,” “Separation,” “Struggles between  God and Man,” “Mythic Heroes,” and “End -  ings.” Includes a general index.  Tanna, Laura,   Jamaican Folk Tales and Oral Histories ;  3rd ed. DLT Associates, Miami, [1984] 2000.  1098   Annotated Bibliography

=== 페이지 1116 ===
Web   r eso U r C es  6  This overview is intended to give readers some  ideas   on   how   to   find   information   through  Internet searches on the myths, legends and  other narratives included in the encyclopedia.  Such searching cannot be random, however,  since using one of the standard Internet search  engines. Google for example, produced a total of  2,290,000 hits when the simple phrase “mythol -  ogy” was entered in the search field, while “leg -  end” produced a daunting 20,800,000 hits. It is  thus clear that search protocols must be more  refined. The section on Web Resources is laid  out in several divisions and should be used in  combination with the Bibliography above. Often  a paraphrased, quoted, or translated version of  the mission statement of the Web site listing  has been included, letting the source speak for  itself. We begin with larger databases and pro -  ceed through more specific ones, specifically on  narratives, and conclude with some interesting  additions, on film. game, museums, places, orga -  nizations, and journals.  Of continuing concern for those using the  Internet is the fact the URLs change quite fre -  quently on the Web, thus both the name and the  electronic address are included here. Any search  engine could find the new URL by using the  title of the site when the old URL has changed.  Many of the sites listed below have extensive  lists of links to the particular topic of the search,  and thereby supply the Internet user with an  extended selection of sources to continue search -  ing for more specific detail. One such example  is the Web site created and maintained by D.  L. Ashliman, called simply   Folklinks: Folk and  Fairy Tales Sites.   This site is continually updated  and represents an even better starting point  for myth and legend than one of the search  engines, like Google, Yahoo, or DMOZ, all of  which are listed below. The Ashliman Web site  includes sections on Search Engines, Electronic  Text Indexes, Individual Stories and Types, and  eleven other categories. The Ashliman site is  extremely useful, but it is primarily Eurocentric.  and devoted largely to fairy tales (http://www.  pitt.edu/-dash/folklinks.html).   The   list   below  will include addresses intended to expand the  information offered on the Folklinks Web site.  S earch   e ngine S  Reference   librarians,   now   generally   referred  to as information service specialists, will usu -  ally direct library users to Google, Netscape  and Yahoo, but some others are DMOZ (see  below), Excite, Lycos, and Webcrawler. There  is also a   Major Search Engines and Directories  Watch   site which “provides tips and informa -  tion about searching the web, analysis of the  search engine industry and help to site own -  ers trying to improve their ability to be found  in search engines.” (www.SearchEngineWatch.  com) Google offers a specific Web Directory for  Myths and Folktales at: http://www.google.com/  Top/Arts/Literature/Electronic_Text_Archives.  g eneral   r eference   W ork S  Many of the standard reference works for myth  and legend are now available online and can be  found through one of the search engines listed  above. Here are a few for quick access, includ -  1099

=== 페이지 1117 ===
ing the most complete bibliography available  through research libraries, the   Modern Lan -  guage Association International Bibliography.  •   The Columbia Encyclopedia –The Internet’s pre -  miere site for encyclopedias, including reference  works like   Oxford Dictionaries, Britannica Concise  Encyclopedia   and millions of newspaper and maga -  zine articles (www.encyclopedia.com).  •   Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and Fable –Gives the  derivation, source, or origin of common phrases,  allusions, and “words that have a tale to tell.” The  dictionary is worldwide in its coverage, and thus  some of the folklore items in this volume would  also be found in Brewer’s, such as Advent, St.  Nicholas, and many others (www.Bartleby.com).  •   Wikipedia –Wikipedia describes itself as an ency -  clopedia written collaboratively by its readers.  “The site is a Wiki, meaning that anyone, includ -  ing   you,   can edit almost any article right now .   .   .”  Wikipedia contains a huge amount of informa -  tion on all sorts of subjects ranging from history,  literature, music, and religion, and everything and  anything in between (http://www.wikipedia.org/).  •   Modern   Language   Association   (MLAIB) –The  MLA International Bibliography   provides a clas -  sified listing and subject index for books and  articles published on modern languages, litera -  tures, folklore, and linguistics. It is compiled in  New York by the staff of the MLA Office of Bib -  liographic Information Services, and is primarily  intended for research purposes. It is available in  print and in several electronic versions that are  updated ten times a year (http://www.mla.org/).  r e S earch   l ibrarie S  Virtually all major research libraries in the United  States and many around the world have online  catalogs that are easy to access and use, but it must  be remembered that these libraries seldom offer  fulltexts of the books themselves. The University  and National Libraries in the United Kingdom  and Ireland, as well as the German National  Library are listed below as examples of research  libraries from other countries. Similar sites are  available for most countries. Plans by Google to  offer texts from the Harvard and the University  of Michigan libraries have been discussed, but no  such access is available as of 2008.  •   Librarians’ Internet Index (LII) –This “is a pub -  licly-funded website and weekly newsletter serv -  ing California, the nation, and the world. It  consists of 14 main topics and nearly 300 related  topics” (http://www.lii.org/).  •   Libweb –This site from the University of Cali -  fornia at Berkeley lists Internet resources from  libraries in more than 146 countries (http://sun  site.berkeley.edu/Libweb).  •   Library   of   Congress   (LOC) –The   Library   of  Congress (http://loc.gov) houses not only book  and   journal   collections,   but   it   produces   the  online Folklife Sourcebook (http://www.loc.gov/  folklife/source/sourcebk.html).  •   COPAC –The COPAC library catalogue gives  free access to the merged online catalogues of  major university and national libraries in the  United   Kingdom   and   Ireland,   including   the  British Library (http://copac.ac.uk/copac).  •   Die deutsche Bibliothek (DDB) –The German  National   Library   is   the   national   library   and  national bibliographic information center for the  Federal Republic of Germany. Located in Frank -  furt am Main it is responsible for the collec -  tion, processing, and bibliographic indexing of  all German and German-language publications  issued since 1913 (http://www.ddb.de/).  e lectronic   i ndexe S   and   t ext S  There are several sites that offer both indexes  and full texts; some are priced, but a significant  number are offered gratis. The best known  is   DMOZ,   but   those   listed   below,   mostly  associated   with   major   research   libraries   in  the United States and Europe, are also very  good and have amazingly large lists of works  available electronically. D. L. Ashliman has an  extensive list of electronic texts on his   Folktexts  site (see below).  •   DMOZ (Directory Mozilla) . –This “Open Direc -  tory Project on Netscape is the largest, most  comprehensive human-edited directory of elec -  tronic text archives on the Web. It is constructed  and maintained by a vast, global community of  volunteer   editors”   (http://www.dmoz.org/Arts/  Literature/Electronic Text Archives).  •   Electronic   Text   Center –This   site   primarily  serves the teaching and research needs of the  faculty and students at the University of Virginia  1100   Web Resources

=== 페이지 1118 ===
in the areas of humanities and text encoding  (http://www2.lib.virginia.eduletextlindex.html).  •   Gabriel   (GAteway   and   BRIdge   to   Europe’s  National   Libraries) –The   European   Library  is located at the Koninklijke Bibliotheek, the  National   Library   of   the   Netherlands.   Their  Web service provides a portal which offers access  to the combined resources (books, magazines,  journals—both digital and non-digital) of the  43 national libraries of Europe. It offers free  searching and delivers digital objects—some free,  some priced (http://www.theeuropeanlibrary.org/  portal/index.htm).  •   Online Books –The most comprehensive index  of books available gratis through the Internet is  found at the University of Pennsylvania (http://  www.netlibrary.net).  •   Project   Gutenberg   Literary   Archive   Founda -  tion.   Project Gutenberg was founded at the Uni -  versity of Illinois, but is now located in Salt Lake  City. It is the first and largest single collection  of free electronic books, or eBooks (http://www.  gutenberg.org/).  Myth  There are, as might be expected, numerous  sites devoted to the mythologies of the world.  Some of the most useful are the following  (alphabetical listing):  •   Bulfinch’s Mythology –“The preeminent Inter -  net publisher of literature, reference and verse  providing students, researchers and the intel -  lectually curious with unlimited access to books  and information on the web, free of charge”  (http://www.bartleby.com/bulfinch).  •   Encyclopedia Mythica –“The mythology section  is divided to six geographical regions: Africa,  Americas, Asia, Europe, Middle East, and Ocea -  nia. Each region has many clearly defined subdi -  visions that will ease your search. The Folklore  section contains general folklore, Arthurian leg -  ends, and fascinating folktales from many lands”  (http://www.pantheon.org).  •   Genealogical Guide to Greek Mythology –“The  Greek Mythology Link   is a collection of myths  retold   by   Carlos   Parada,   author   of   Genealogi -  cal Guide to Greek Mythology,   published in 1993.  The GML contains Texts, Images, Charts, and  Maps. The mythical accounts are based exclu -  sively on ancient sources” (http:/fhomepage.mac.  cornlcparada/GML).  •   General Folklore and Mythology –This is a list  of links to sites offering general or miscellaneous  information about folklore and mythology (http:  I/www.pibburns.comlmythgene.htm).  •   The Internet Sacred Text Archive –“The largest  freely available archive of online books about  religion, mythology, folklore, and the esoteric on  the Internet” (http://www.sacredtexts.com).  •   The Internet Classics Archive –“A list of 441  works   of   classical   literature   by   59   different  authors, including user-driven commentary and  ‘reader’s choice’ Web sites. Mainly GrecoRoman  works (some Chinese and Persian), all in English  translation” (http://classics.mit.edu).  •   Myth*ing   Links –An   Annotated   &   Illustrated  Collection of Worldwide Links to Mythologies,  Fairy Tales & Folklore, Sacred Arts & Sacred  Traditions (www.mythinglinks.org).  •   Mythology, Folklore, and a little bit of Religion –  This site is essentially a massive list of links to sites  about mythology, folklore, and religion, sorted by  category, which has the advantage that it makes it  easier to find what you are looking for (http://www.  cs.cmu.edu/—bnagy/sarahsite/myths2.html).  •   Myths and Legends –A particularly useful site for  searching myths and legends throughout the world  (http://home.corncast.neii-chris.s/myth.html).  •   Perseus Project –“Perseus is an evolving digital  library, engineering interactions through time,  space, and language. Our primary goal is to  bring a wide range of source materials to as  large an audience as possible. We anticipate that  greater accessibility to the sources for the study  of the humanities will strengthen the quality of  questions, lead to new avenues of research, and  connect more people through the connection of  ideas” (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu).  •   The Voice of the Shuttle –“Started in 1994 as  a suite of static Web pages, VoS has now been  rebuilt as a database that serves content dynami -  cally on the Web” (http://vos.ucsb.edu).  •   World Myths and Legends in Art –“This collec -  tion of images brings together 26 works of art  in the collection of the Minneapolis Institute of  Arts inspired by mythology around the world.  The rich variety of images makes it possible for  teachers to address a wide range of study areas,  including language arts, humanities, art, social  Web Resources   1101

=== 페이지 1119 ===
and cultural studies, and world religions” (http://  www.artsmia.org/world-myths).  l egend  While legend does not seem to have as many  Web   sites   as   myth,   there   are   several   good  starting points for locating individual stories.  Google, for example, has a good sampling of  popular legends at http://www.google.com/Top/  Society/Folklore/Literature/Tales/Legends.  •   Legends –“This   archive   preserves   The   Best   of  Legends —links to primary source material, schol -  arship, essays, and historical surveys—romance,  adventure, and panache” (http://bestoflegends.  org/index.html).  •   Snopes.com –Describes itself as the Urban Leg -  ends   Reference   Page.   Thirty-five   categories,  including legends related to autos, horrors, old  wives’ tales, politics, religion, racial humor, etc.  (http://www.snopes.com).  f olktale  There are many folktale sites, most of which  are listed in the D. L. Ashliman site called sim -  ply   Folktexts.   This site, much like the   Folklinks  site described above, is extremely useful and  offers electronic texts of folktales and myths,  most of which have been translated into Eng -  lish (http://www.pitt.edu/~dash/folktexts.html).  There are also good sites in other countries,  particularly in Europe, for folktales. A few are  listed below for France, Germany, Russia, and  Turkey, but many others can be located by  using one of the search engines.  f rance  •   Contes –(http:llfr.dir.yahoo.com/Art_et_culture/  Litterature/Genres/Contes).  •   Il était une fois .   .   . les contes de fées –(http://  expositions.bnf.fr/contes).  g er M any  •   Europäische   Märchengesellschaft –The   Euro -  pean   Fairy   Tale   Society   supports   fairy   tale  research and promotes the preservation and the  diffusion of fairy tales of all people and contrib -  utes to the encountering and understanding of  all people on earth. A list of links to other fairy  tale sites is included on the home page (http://  www.rnaerchen-erng.de/).  •   Enzyklopädie des Märchens –The Encyclopedia  of the Folktale is a reference work presenting the  results of almost two centuries of international  research in the field of folk narrative tradition,  past and present. The EM, when completed,  will consist of 14 volumes, and approximately  3,600 alphabetically arranged entries. At pres -  ent the index of Aarne-Thompson tale types,  the motif index, a name and subject index are  accessible electronically, as are sample entries  (http://wwwuser.gwdg.de/-enzmaer/).  r u SS ia  •   Russian Website   for folklore in general, includ -  ing folktales (in Russian) (http://folklore.ru).  t urkey  •   The   Uysal-Walker   Archive   of   Turkish   Oral  Narrative   (U-WATON) is located in the Special  Collections Library at Texas Tech University  (http://aton.ttu.edu).  •   Yahoo   directories for Danish (dk), Italian (it),  Norwegian (no), Swedish (se), and Spanish (es)  mythology and folklore, following the formula  http://[country code].dir.yahoo.com.  f il MS  Because so much of myth and legend show up  in film, two sources in particular are useful:  •   Internet Movie Database   (USA)–This site offers  listings for over 35,000 individuals, including  actors, writers, and directors, as well as contact  details for over 8,000 companies in the entertain -  ment industry. Little Red Riding Hood in the  title box, for example, produces 14 hits, and nine  partial matches (http://us.inidb.com/search).  •   Films   for   Humanities   and   Sciences –“As   the  leading provider of media for higher education,  Films for the Humanities and Sciences creates  and distributes world-class academic content for  discerning educators” (http://fth.films.com).  g a M e S  As might be expected, the world of electronic  games has incorporated myths into its prod -  ucts. In Microsoft’s Game Studios one finds the  1102   Web Resources

=== 페이지 1120 ===
Age of Mythology   (2001) (http://www.rnicrosoft.  comlgames/ageofmythology).  Mu S eu MS  There are entire museums devoted to some of  the characters who appear in the myths, leg -  ends, and fairy tales included here. Generally a  search engine will reveal the existence of such  museums, e.g., Reynard the Fox (http://www.  linden.de/museumi.htm) and Till Eulenspiegel  (http://www.eulenspiegel-museum.de/).  P lace S  Cities around the world now have Web sites,  and many of them include as part of their logo  a depiction of mythological, legendary, or fairy  tale characters. Hameln, for example, has the  Pied Piper on its homepage. The Web address  is quite easy to produce. Following the   www.  simply put in the name of the city,   Hameln,  then follow that with a   .de   for Germany, or  another country’s address (www.hameln.de).  •   Fairy   Tale   Route   (Germany)–The   Web   site  describes “a route of more than 600km, stretch -  ing from Hanau in the south to Bremen in the  north, it meanders past places where the Broth -  ers Grimm lived and worked, as well as places  and landscapes in which their fairy tales were  set. The Fairy Tale Route offers art and history,  it   leads   to   delightful   towns   of   half-timbered  houses, castles, and palaces. It includes muse -  ums and galleries, invites one to visit concerts  and   theatres,   and   links   tradition,   city   atmo -  sphere,   and   local   art”   (http://www.deutsche  maerchenstrasse.de/seiten/index.html).  o rganization S   and   J ournal S  •   American   Folklore   Society –“The   American  Folklore Society is an association of people who  study and communicate knowledge about folk -  lore throughout the world” (http://afsnet.org).  •   Folklore Society   (England)–“The Folklore Soci -  ety’s interest and expertise covers topics such as  traditional music, song, dance and drama, narra -  tive, arts and crafts, customs and belief. We are  also interested in popular religion, traditional  and regional food, folk medicine, children’s folk -  lore, traditional sayings, proverbs rhymes and  jingles” (http://folklore-society.com).  •   Trickster’s Way –an online journal dedicated to  trickster   research   (http://trinity.edu/org/tricksters/  TrixWay).  •   JSTOR –“Journal   Storage   is   a   not-for-profit  organization with a dual mission to create and  maintain a tmsted archive of important scholarly  journals, and to provide access to these journals  as widely as possible. JSTOR offers researchers  the ability to retrieve high-resolution, scanned  images of journal issues and pages as they were  originally designed, printed, and illustrated. The  journals archived in JSTOR span many disci -  plines” (http://www.jstor.org).  Web Resources   1103

=== 페이지 1121 ===
A  a bi P one   i ndian   of  S outh   a M erica  Aharaigichi  a e S o P ic  Aesopic fables  Ant and the  Grasshopper,  Ass in the Lion’s Skin,  The  Ass’s Brains  Avaricious and Envious,  The  Belly and Its Members,  The  Cat Maiden, The  Cock and the Pearl,  The  Cuckoo and the Turtle -  dove, The  Dog and His Shadow,  The  Eagle and the Arrow,  The  Fox and the Crow, The  Fox and the Grapes,  The  Fox and the Mosqui -  toes, The  Frog and the Ox, The  Goose That Laid the  Golden Eggs, The  Hawk and the Nightin -  gale, The  Jay and the Peacock,  The  Juno and the Peacock  Lion and the Mouse,  The  Lion in Love, The  Lion’s Share, The  Mice in Council, or  Belling the Cat, The  Milkmaid and Her Pail,  The  Mountain in Labor,  The  Old Man and Death,  The  Piper, The  Serpent and the File,  The  Sick Lion, The  Tortoise and the Birds,  The  Town Mouse and the  Country Mouse, The  Tree and the Reed, The  Two Pots, The  Wolf and the Crane,  The  Wolf and the Lamb,  The  Wolf in Sheep’s Cloth -  ing, The  Woodman and the Ser -  pent, The  a frican  Abuk and Garang  Adu Ogyinae  Aiwel  Ala  Anansi  Atai  Bomazi  Bumba  Cagn  Da  Deng  Efé  Eka Abassi  Eshu  Fa  Faran  Gikuyu (Kikuyu),  Masai, and Kamba  Golden Stool, The  Gu  Haitsi-aibed  Iku  Ilé-Ifé (house wide)  Imana  Imilozi  Iruwa  Jok  Juok  Kalumba  Kholumolumo  Khonvum  Kibuka  Kintu and Nambi  Kitamba  Lebe  Le-eyo  Legba  Leve  Leza  Libanza  Long Juju  Maoriw  Marwe  Mason wasp  Mawu Lisa  Molimons  Moyna  Mujaji II  Mukasa  Mulungu  Murile  Mwambu and Sela  Nana  Ngunza  Njinyi  Nummo  Nyame  Nzambi  Obatala  Obumo  Ogun Onire  Olokun  Olorun  Onyankopon  Oranyan  Orisha  Orunmila  Osa  Osawa  Oshossi  Oshun  Oshunmare  Poro  Ruhanga  Shamba  Shango  Tano  Taui’goad  Tchue  Tembo  Twe  Unkulunkulu  l ist of   e ntries Categori Z ed by  C U lt U re and   e thni C ity  6  1104

=== 페이지 1122 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1105  Uwolowu  Velo Men  Wele  Were  Zin  Zoa  a lacaluf   i ndian  of   t ierra   del  f uego  Xolas  a M azonian  Yara  Anhanga  a M erican  Allen, Ethan  Allison, Robert Clay  Angel of Hadley  Annie Christmas  Appomattox Apple Tree  Army of the Dead  Babe, the Blue Ox  Baca, Elfego  Banjo  Barada, Antoine  Barbara Frietchie  Barnum, Phineas Taylor  Bass, Sam  Bean, Judge Roy  Belle Starr  Big Foot  Big Harpe  Billy Potts  Billy the Kid  Black Bart  Blackbeard  Boone, Daniel  Borden, Lizzie  Boyde, Rebel Belle  Br’er Fox  Br’er Rabbit  Brown, John  Buffalo Bill  Butch Cassidy  Calamity Jane  Captain Kidd  Cardiff Giant  Cartwright, Peter  Casey at the Bat  Casey Jones  Charter Oak  Coal-Oil Johnnie  Cooper, D.B.  Corey, Giles  Crockett, Davy  Diamond Jim Brady  Doodang  Dustin, Hannah  Endicott, John  Evangeline  Fakelore  Feathertop  Febold Feboldson  Formula  Frankie and Johnny  Franklin, Benjamin  Frenchy Aucoin  Gasparilla, José Gaspar  Geronimo  Ghost Riders  Great Carbuncle  Great Stone Face, The  Gremlins  Harris, Eliza  Hatfields and McCoys  Hex  Hill, Joe  Howe’s Masquerade  Ichabod Crane  James, Jesse  Jim Bludso  Jim Bridger  Joe Baldwin  Joe Magarac  John Henry  Johnny Appleseed  Jonathan Moulton  Jones, John Paul  Kate Shelley  Kemp Morgan  King Hal  Kit Carson  La Llorona  Leif Ericsson  Lincoln, Abraham  Masterson, Bat  Mike Fink  Mister Dooley  Molly Pitcher  Mrs. O’Leary’s Cow  Nain Rouge  Naomi Wise  Nation, Carry  Natty Bumppo  Oakley, Annie  Old John  Paul Bunyan  Pecos Bill  Peter Rugg  Pocahontas  Po’ Sandy  Railroad Bill  Revenant  Revere, Paul  Rip Van Winkle  Rosie the Riveter  Ross, Betsy  Ruidoso  Sam Hart of Woburn  Sam Slick  Skipper Ireson’s Ride  Springfield Mountain  Stacker Lee  Standish, Miles  Stormalong, Old  Strap Buckner  Swamp Fox  Thurber, James  Tom Quick  Tony Beaver  Two-Toe Tom  Uncle Remus  Uncle Sam  Unsinkable Molly  Brown  Urban Legend  Vanishing Hitchhiker  Washington, George  Webster, Daniel  Welty, Eudora  Windingo  Witch of Wellfleet  Work Projects  Administration  (WPA)  Wreck of the Hesperus,  The  Yankee Doodle  a nde S   i ndian  Cun  a nglo -S axon  Hengist and Horsa  Woden  a ntille S  Iocauna  Zemi  a rabic  Ahl-at-tral  Aladdin  Ali Baba  Al-Safa and Al-Marwa  Al-Uzza  Antar  Dendan  Djinn  Douban  Enchanted Horse,  The  Ghoul  Sennacherib  Sinbad the Sailor  Thousand and One  Nights, The  a raucanian  i ndian   of   c hile  Caleuche  Camahueto  Cherruve  Chonchon  Guallipen  Guecubus  Guinechen  Guirivilo  Manta  Tenten and Caicai  a ra W ak   i ndian  Kururumany  a ra W ak   i ndian   of  the   g uiana S  Aiomun Kondi  Orehu

=== 페이지 1123 ===
1106   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  a r M enian  Ara  Aram  Aramazd  David of Sassoun  Devs and Hambarus  Golden City, The  Habërmani  Hayk  Hotots  Javerzaharses and Kaches  Kush pari  Mihr  Nane  Nhangs  Purto  Santaramet  Shahapet  Shvod  Tigranes  Tiur  Vahagn  Zatik  a SS yrian  Ashur  a u S tralian  Adno-artina  Altjira  Atnatu  Bagadjimbiri  Baginis  Baiame  Bamapama  Banaidja  Biggarro  Boorala  Bori  Brewins  Bunjil  Bunyip  Buurt-kuuruk  Churinga  Colbumatuan-kurrk  Darana  Deert  Dimbulans  Djanbun  Djanggawul  Dreamtime  Eruncha  Gidja  Goin  Goonnear  Inapertwa  Julana  Jurawadbad  Knaninja  Kohin  Koi  Kookinberrook and  Berrokborn  Koopoo  Koyan  Krum-ku-dart-boneit  Kuinyo  Kunapipi  Kuninwa-wattalo  Kurriwilban  Laindjung  Mahrach  Mailkun  Malingee  Mamandabari  Marindi  Minawara and Multultu  Mindi  Mokoi  Moo-roo-bul  Morkul-kua-luan  Mrarts  Mudgegong  Mullion  Mungan-Ngana  Najara  Nalul  Narguns  Net-net  Neulam-kurrk  Ngalalbal  Ngallenyook  Ngarangs  Ngunung-ngunnut  Numbakulla  Orokeet  Pallian  Potkoorok  Potoyan  Pundjel  Rainbow Snake  Tambora  Thinan-malkia  Tjinimin the Bat  Too-Roo-Dun  Tulugal  Turong  Tutugals  Uli-tarra  Walangada  Walwalag Sisters  Wambeen  Wiwonderrer  Wollonqua  Wondjina  Yabons  Yaho  a ztec  Apizteotl  Atlacamanc  Atlatonan  Atlaua  Aztlan  Binding of the Years  Chachalmeca  Chalchihuitlicue  Chalmecaciuatl  Chiconquiahuitl  Cihuateteo  Coatlicue  Coyolxauhqui  Ehecatl  Four or Five Ages  Huemac  Hueytonantzin  Huitzilopochtli  Ixtlilton  Iztaccihuatl  Mayauel  Metztli  Mictlantecuhtli  Mixcoatl  Montezuma II  Omacatl  Ometecuhtli  Opochtli  Paynal  Tlaloc  Tlazolteotl  Toci  Tonacatecutli  Tonatiuh  Tzitsimine  Ueuecoyotl  Uixtocihuatl  Vitzilopuchtl  Xilonen  Xipe Totec  Xiuhtecuhtli  Xochiquetzal  Xolotl Huetzi  Yacatecutli  B  b abylonian  Adapa  Allallu  Anunnaki  Apsu  Aralu  Av  Bau  Bel  Benini  Enkidu  Etana  Gula  Humbaba  Marduk  Nabu  Ninib  Tammuz  Ubshukinna  Zag-Muk  b abylonian -  a SS yrian  Aa  Aruru  Belit  Damkina  Ereshkigal  Irra  Lugulbanda  Nergal  Rimmon  Sarpanitum  Shamash

=== 페이지 1124 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1107  b akairi   i ndian  of   central  b razil  Keri and Kame  b olivian  Tonapa  b orneoan  Kinharingan  b razilian  Macunaima  Mani  Milomaki  Roraima, Mount  b riti S h  Accolon of Gaul  Acheflour  Adam Bell  Addanc of the Lake  Agaran  Agretes  Albania  Albion  Aldinger, Sir  Aleine  Alfasem  Alisaunder  Allan-a-Dale  Amangons  Amant, Sir  Amfortas  Angarad of the Golden  Hand  Animal Farm  Aroundight  Arthur  Astolat  Avalon  Babes in the Wood  Bacon, Roger  Bailiff’s Daughter of  Islington  Balan and Balin  Bedivere, Sir  Belin  Beowulf  Bevis of Hampton  Billy Blin  Bladud  Blunderbore  Boadicea  Bogy  Brut  Camelot  Caractacus  Carausius  Cavall  Chaucer, Geoffrey  Clootie  Clym of the Clough  Constans  Conwenna  Cophetua  Cradlemont  Cradock  Curtana  Cymbeline  Dagonet  Dun Cow  Edmund, St.  Edyrn  Elaine  Elfthryth  Elidure  Estmere  Estrildis  Excalibur  Galahad  Gareth  Gil Morice  Glastonbury  Godiva, Lady  Gog and Magog  Gorboduc  Gotham, Wise Men of  Guinever  Guy of Warwick  Gwain  Igraine  Jack and the Beanstalk  John Barleycorn  Kulhwch and Olwen  Lady of Shalott, The  Lady of the Lake  Lancelot of the Lake  Lear, King  Lot, King  Mabinogion, The  Maid Marion  Margawse, Queen  Merlin  Morgan le Fay  Morris Dance  Mother Goose  Order of the Garter,  The Most Noble  Perceval  Questing Beast  Reliques  Richard the  Lion-Hearted  Robin Hood  Round Table  Sir Patrick Spens  Stonehenge  Stone of Scone  Taliesin  Tanner of Tamworth,  The  Tarquin  Tintagel  Titurel  Tristram and Iseult  Ulfius  Unquiet Grave  Urre  Uther Pendragon  Viviane  Vortigern  Wayland the Smith  Whittington, Dick  William the  Conqueror  b uddhi S t  Abhinna  Adi-Buddha  Agama  Akshobhya  Ambapali  Amitabha  Amoghasiddhi  Ananda  Anatapindaka  Anuruddha  Arhat  Ashta-mangala  Asita  Asoka  Avalokiteshvara  (Avalokita)  Bardo Thodol  Bato Kanzeon  Bhavacakra  Bhikkhu  Bishamon  Bodhi  Bodhidharma  Bodhisattva  Bodhi-Tree  Bonten  Buddhas  Buddha, The  Channa  Chia-Lan  Chunda  Citipati  Dadak  Daibutsu  Dai Mokuren  Dakinis  Dalai Lama  Dem Chog  Devadatta  Dhammacakka  Dhammapada,  The  Dharma  Dharmapala  Dhyani-Bodhisattvas  Dhyani-Buddhas  Dipankara Buddha  Emma Ten  Fo  Fu Daishi  Futen  Gwaten  Handaka Sonja  Hattara Aonja  Hua-Kuang Fo  Idaten  Ishana Ten  Ishvara  Jan-Teng Fo  Jataka  Jigoku  Jina

=== 페이지 1125 ===
1108   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  Jingu-ji  Jiten  Jiu No O  Jizo Bosatsu  Kakebotoke  Kanthaka  Karashishi  Kashyapa  Kaundinya  Khen-Pa  Khon-Ma  Kuan-Yin  Kwannon  Kwaten  Lung-rta  Mahasthamaprapta  Mahavira  Mahayana  Maitreya  Mandala  Manjushri  Mara  Marishiten  Maya  Milarepa  Miroku Bosatsu  Mudra  Mustard Seed, The  Myo-o  Nanda  Ni-o  Nirvana  Nitten  Padmasambhava  Palden Lhamo  Pali  Perahera  Prakriti  Pratyeka-Buddha  Prayer Wheel  P’u Hsien  Pu-tai Ho-shang  Pyan-ras-gsigs  Rasetsu Ten  Ratnapani  Sab-dag  Saluka-Jataka  Samantabhadra  Sangha  Seng-don-ma  Shitenno  Shuddhodana  Stupa  Suiten  Sumsumara-Jataka  Sutra  Tag-Mar  Taishaku Ten  Tam-Din  Tara  Tathagata  Tennin  Than ka  Tipitaka  Tirthamkara  Ti Tsang  Tri-ratna  Urna  Ushnisha  Vairocana  Vajra-Dhara  Vajrapani  Vajravarahi  Vasavadatta  Vimalakirti  Vishakha  Vishvapani  Wei T’o  Wesak  Yakushi Nyorai  Yao-Shih Fo  Yashodhara  Yul-lha  Zao Gongen  b ur M e S e  Apauk-kyit Lok  Hkun Ai  Ko Pala  Lan-yein and  A-mong  Leippya  Mahagir  Nats  Titha Jumma  C  c akchiquel  i ndian  Chamalcán  c a M bodian  Caterpillar and the  Crow, The  Man Who Knew How  to Cure a Snake Bite,  The  Story of Brave Kong,  The  Story of the Greedy  Family, The  Story of the Jackal and  the Shrimp, The  Story of Mr. Basket  Knife, The  Origin of the Tiger,  The  Trial, The  c anaanite  Anath  Aqhat  Asherah  Dagon  Nikkal  c arib   i ndian  Machira, Lake  Maconaura and  Anuanaitu  c eltic  Aengus og  Albiorix  Amaethon  Anu  Arianrhod  Aynia  Balor  Banba  Banshee  Belinus  Belisama  Beltaine  Bith and Birren  Blathnat  Boann  Borvo  Bran  Branwen  Bress  Brian  Brigit  Brownie  Bussumarus  Camulos  Caswallawn  Cenn Cruaich  Ceridwen  Cernunnos  Cessair  Cluricane  Credne  Cuchulain  Cyhiraeth  Dagda  Danu  Deirdre  Diancecht  Dirona  Domnu  Druids  Dwyvan and Dwyvach  Dylan  Eremon  Essus  Ethne  Finn  Fintaan  Flidais  Fomorians  Govannon  Grannos  Gwydion  Gwynn  Kelpie  Leanhaun Shee  Leprechaun  Lir  Lleu Law Gyffes  Luchtaine  Ludd  Mabon  Maev  Mananaan  Moccus  Morrigu, The  Mullo  Nudd  Ogma  Ossian

=== 페이지 1126 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1109  Pryderi  Salmon of Knowledge  Samain  Sucellos  Sul  Taranis  Tuan Mac Carell  Tuatha de Danann  Uther Ben  c haco   i ndian  Kasogonga  c hibcha   i ndian  of   c olo M bia  Bachúe  Bochica  Chibcachum  Chiminigagua  Guatavita Lake  Huitaca  Nemterequeteba  c hine S e  Chang Chiu  Chang Hsien  Chang Kuo-lao  Cheng San-kung  Ch’en Nan  Ch’ih Ching-tzu  Chih Nu  Ch’i Ku-tzu  Ching Tu  Ch’in-kuang wang  Chiu-t’ien Lei Kung  Chuang Tzu  Chu Jung  Chu-ko Liang  Chu-lin Chi’i-Hsien  Chung-li Ch’üan  Chun T’i  Confucius  Erh-shih-ssu Hsiao  Fan-Wang  Feng-huang  Feng Po  Hai K’ang  Han Hsiang Tzu  Heng-Ê  Ho Ho Erh-Hsien  Ho Hsien-Ku  Hsiao Kung  Hsieh p’ing-an  Hsien  Hsi-Shen  Hsi Wang Mu  Hun-tun  Juan Chi  K’ilin  Kuang Ch’eng-Tzu  Kuan Ti  K’uei Hsing  Kuo Tzu-i  Lan Ts’ai-ho  Lao Lang  Lao Tzu  Lei Kung  Lich-tzu  Ling-pai  Li T’ien-kuai  Liu Ling  Lung Wang  Lu Pan  Lu Tung-pin  Ma Tsu P’o  Mu Kung  Pa-Hsien  P’ang Chu, P’ang Ch’ê,  and P’ang Chiao  P’an-ku  Pien ch’eng  Pien Ch’iao  P’ing-Teng  San Hsien Shan  San-yu  Shang-Ti  Shan T’ao  Shen  Shen Nung  Shou Hsing  Shui Ching-tzu  Sung-ti wang  T’ai-shan kun wang  T’ao t’ieh  T’ien Hou  Ti Yü  Tou Mu  Ts’ai Shen  Tsao Kuo-chiu  Tsao Shen  Ts’ien K’eng  Wang Jung  Wang Mu  Wen Chang Ti-chun  Wu-fu  Wu-kuan wang  Wu Lao  Wu ta chia  Wu-yuan kuei  Yao  Yeh Ching  Yen Kung  Yen-Mo wang  Yin and Yang  Yü Huang  Yü Shih  c hri S tian  Abgar  Abomination of  Desolation  Adam and Eve  Adrian, St.  Advent  Afra, St.  Agatha, St.  Agnes of Montepul -  ciano, St.  Agnes, St.  Alban, St.  Albertus Magnus, St.  All Saints’ Day  All Souls’ Day  Alphege, St.  Ambrose, St.  Andrew, St.  Anna  Anthony of Padua, St.  Anthony the Abbot, St.  Apollonia, St.  Apollyon  Apostle  Ash Wednesday  Aspen  Athanasius, St.  Augustine of Canter -  bury, St.  Augustine, St.  Baphomet  Baptism  Barbara, St.  Barlaam and Josaphat  Barnabas, St.  Bartholomew, St.  Basil the Great, St.  Bavon, St.  Bede the Venerable, St.  Befana  Benedict, St.  Bernardino of Siena, St.  Bernard of Clairvaux,  St.  Blaise, St.  Bonaventura, St.  Boniface, St.  Boris and Gleb, Sts.  Brendan, St.  Bridget of Sweden, St.  Brigit, St.  Bruno, St.  Cain and Abel  Candlemas Day  Casilda, St.  Casimir of Poland, St.  Catherine of  Alexandria, St.  Catherine of Siena, St.  Cecilia, St.  Chad, St.  Cheron, St.  Christina the Astonish -  ing, St.  Christmas  Christopher, St.  Clare, St.  Clement, St.  Clotilda, St.  Columba, St.  Constantine the Great  Corpus Christi  Cosmas and Damian,  Sts.  Crispin and Crispinian,  Sts.  Cross  Cuthbert, St.  Cuthman, St.  Cyril and Methodius,  Sts.  David, St.

=== 페이지 1127 ===
1110   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  Denis of France, St.  Diego de Alcalá, St.  Dismas  Dives  Doctors of the Church  Domitilla, Nereus, and  Achilleus, Sts.  Donato of Arezzo, St.  Dorothy, St.  Drithelm, St.  Duns Scotus, Joannes  Dunstan, St.  Durán, Fray Diego  Easter  Ebba of Codingham,  St.  Edith of Wilton, St.  Elizabeth of Portugal,  St.  Eloy of Noyon, St.  Eustace, St.  Evangelists, The Four  Exaltation of the Holy  Cross  Fabiola, St.  Faith, Hope, and Char -  ity, Sts.  Felicitas and Her Seven  Sons, St.  Ferdinand III of Cas -  tile, St.  Fiacre, St.  Florian, St.  Fools, Feast of  Four Horsemen of the  Apocalypse  Fourteen Holy Helpers,  The  Francesca Romana, St.  Francis of Assisi, St.  Francis Xavier, St.  George, St.  Giles, St.  Gnosticism  Golden Legend, The  Gregory the Great, St.  Hagia Sophia  Helena, St.  Henry, St.  Hilary of Poitiers, St.  Hilda, St.  Hippolytus, St.  Holy Innocents Day  Hubert, St.  Icon  Ignatius Loyola, St.  Ignatius of Antioch, St.  Ildefonso, St.  Isidore of Seville, St.  Isidore the Ploughman,  St.  James the Greater, St.  James the Less, St.  Januarius, St.  Jerome, St.  Jesus Christ  Joachin  Joan of Arc, St.  John Chrysostom, St.  John the Baptist, St.  John the Evangelist, St.  Joseph of Arimathea  Joseph, St.  Judas Iscariot  Jude Thaddeus and  Simon Zealot, Sts.  Julian Hospitaller, St.  Justa and Rufina, Sts.  Justina of Antioch, St.  Kenelm, St.  Kentigern, St.  Kevin, St.  Keyne, St.  Kriss Kringle  Lammas  Lawrence, St.  Lazarus  Leonard, St.  Longinus, St.  Lord of Misrule  Louis, St.  Lucifer  Lucy of Syracuse, St.  Luke, St.  Magi  Mammon  Margaret, St.  Mark, St.  Martha, St.  Martin of Tours, St.  Mary Magdalene, St.  Mary of Egypt, St.  Mass  Matthew, St.  Maundy Thursday  Maurice and the The -  ban Legion, St.  Médard of Noyon, St.  Mercurius, St.  Monica, St.  Nephite legend  Nicholas, St.  Nicodemus  Olaf, St.  Oswald, St.  Pancras, St.  Patrick, St.  Paul, St.  Peter Martyr, St.  Peter, St.  Philip, St.  Phocas, St.  Pilate, Pontius  Quiracus, St.  Rais, Gilles de  Ranieri, St.  Raymond Nonnato,  St.  Raymond of Pen -  naforte, St.  Regulus, St.  Rémy, St.  Robert, St.  Roch, St.  Romanus, St.  Rosalia, St.  Rose of Lima, St.  Saints  Samaritan, Good  Santes of Monte Fabri,  St.  Sebald, St.  Sebastian, St.  Sennadius, Dream of  Serapion the Sinonite,  St.  Seven Sleepers of  Ephesus, The  Simeon Stylites, St.  Simon Magus  Stanislaus of Cracow,  St.  Stephen, St.  Swithen, St.  Teresa of Avila, St.  Thais, St. Thecla, St.  Thomas à Becket, St.  Thomas Aquinas, St.  Thomas More, St.  Thomas, St.  Tobit  Tree of Life  Ulrich, St.  Ursula, St.  Valentine, St.  Veronica, St.  Victor de Plancy, St.  Victor of Marseilles, St.  Vincent de Paul, St.  Vincent, St.  Virgin Mary  Vitalis, St.  Vitus, St.  Vladimir of Kiev, St.  Walpurga, St.  Wenceslaus and  Ludmilla, Sts.  Whitsunday  William of Norwich, St  William of York, St.  Winefred, St.  Wolfgang, St.  Wulfilaic, St.  Wulfram, St.  Yves, St.  Zacchaeus  Zacharias, St.  Zenobio, St.  Zeno, St.  Zita, St.  c zech  Blánik  Sarka  D  d ani S h  Frode  Hamlet  Olrik, Axel

=== 페이지 1128 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1111  E  e gy P tian  Akhenaton  Amenhotep  Amun  Ankh  Anubis  Apis  Apophis  Atchet  Aten  Ba  Ba-neb-djet  Bast  Behdety  Benu  Bes  Book of the Dead, The  Buchis  Buto  Coffin Texts  Duat  Ennead  Geb  Hapi  Harmachis  Haroeris  Harpokrates  Hathor  Hathsepsut  Hermes Trismegistus  Horus  Imhotep  Isis  Ka  Khepera  Khnum  Khonsu  Maat  Mehen  Menthu  Min  Mnevis bull  Mummy  Mut  Nefer  Nefertiti  Neith  Nekhebet  Nephthys  Nut  Osiris  Ozymandias  Pharaoh  Ptah  Pyramid Texts  Ra  Rat  Renpet  Rhampsinitus, Treasure  of  Sakhmet  Sebek  Seker  Sekhet-Aaru  Serapis  Serqet  Set  Shu  Sinuhe  Taurt  Tefnut  Tem  Thoth  Tutankhamen  Two Brothers, Tale of  Unas  Uraeus  Utchat  Wenenut  e S ki M o  Aglookik  Aipalookvik  Inua  Sedna  Tu-lu’kau-guk  Tunghat  Yua  e uro P ean  Andersen, Hans  Christian  Androcles and the Lion  Attila  Beast Epic  Bluebeard  Charivari  Charm  Cockaigne, Land of  Dietrich of Bern  Exemplum  Faust  Frame Tale  Francesca da Rimini  Gargantua  Great Goddess/Great  Mother Goddess  Grisilda  Hatto  John the Bear  Little Red Riding Hood  Mab  Motif  Nine Worthies, The  Oberon  Oral-Formulaic Theory  Princess on the Pea  Puss in Boots  Rooster  Rosamund  Rumpelstiltskin  Sand Man  Shape-shifter  Sleeping Beauty, The  Tale Type  Vampire  Variant  Werewolf  F  f inni S h  Aino  Antero Vipunen  Hiisi  Hittola  Ilmarinen  Joukahainen  Jumala  Kalevala, The  Kullervo  Kurra  Lemminkainen  Lempi  Louhi  Luonnotar  Maiden of Pohjola  Marjatta  Metsanneitsyt  Paiva and Kuu  Sampo  Sukusendal  Tapio  Tuonetar  Tuoni  Tursas  Tuulikki  Ukko  Vainamoinen  f inno - u gric  Akkruva  Haltia  Hatyani of Debrecen  Kerki  Kratti  Lud  Maanhaltija  Madderakka  Nakk  Nules-murt  Pajanvaki  Peko  Talonhaltija  Tontuu  Vaks-oza  f rench  Agramante  Alcina  Angelica  Armida  Astarotte  Astolpho  Atlantes  Aymon, The Four Sons  of  Bayard  Bicorn and  Chichevache  Blanchefleur  Chanson de geste  Charlemagne  Drac  Fierabras, Sir  Ganelon  Knights Templar,  Order of  La Fontaine, Jean de  Morgante

=== 페이지 1129 ===
1112   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  Nostradamus, Michel  Ogier the Dane  Oliver  Paladins, The Twelve  Rabican  Rinaldo  Rodomont  Roland  Ruggiero  Taillefer  Valentine and Orson  William of Orange  G  g er M an  Barbarossa  Bremen  Town-Musicians  Chapbook  Cinderella  Hansel and Gretel  Hildebrandslied  Knecht Ruprecht  Kobold  Lessing, Gotthold  Ephraim  Lohengrin  Lorlei  Maiden without Hands  Merseburg Charms  Naumann, Hans  Nixie  Pied Piper of Hamelin  Sachs, Hans  Tannhäuser  Till Eulenspiegel  Venusberg  Wild Hunt  g er M anic  Austrian flag  Bertha  Buri  Egil  Einherjar  Erda  Erl-King  Etzel  Grimm Brothers  Gudrun  Hagen  Krampus  Kriemhild  Luther legend  Master Drink of  Rothenburg, The  Minnesinger  Nerthus  Nibelungenlied  Pilwiz  Radegund, St.  Rausch, Bruder  Rubezahl  Runes  Schildburg  Schild Burghers  Seven Swabians  Ship of Fools  Siegfried  Struwwelpeter, Der  Tree of Life  Tuisco  Twelve Nights  Watzmann, King  Wild Man  Wotan  g reek  Abaris  Abderus  Absyrtus  Acamas  Acantha  Acarnan and  Amphoterus  Acastus  Acestes  Achelous  Acheron  Achilles  Acidalia  Acontius of Cea  Acrisius  Actaeus  Actis  Adamanthaea  Admetus  Adrasteia  Adrastus  Aeacus  Aeaea  Aëdon  Aegeus  Aegialeia  Aeginetan Sculptures  Aegis  Aegisthus  Aegle  Aegyptus  Aeneas  Aeolus  Aerope  Aesacus  Aethra  Agamemnon  Agathodaemon  Agenor  Aglaea  Ajax  Alastor  Alcathous  Alcestis  Alcinous  Alcithoe  Alcmaeon  Alcmene  Alcyone  Alcyoneus  Alecto  Alectryon  Alexander the Great  Aloadae  Alope  Alphesiboea  Altis  Amalthea  Amazons  Ambrosia  Amphiaraus  Amphilochus  Amphion and Zethus  Amphitrite  Amphitryon  Amycus  Anchises  Androgeos  Andromache  Andromeda  Anius  Antaeus  Antenor  Anteros  Antigone  Antilochus  Antiope  Aphrodite  Apis  Apollo  Apollodorus  Apple of Discord  Arachne  Arcadia  Arcas  Ares  Arethusa  Aretos  Arge  Argeia  Argives  Argo  Argonauts  Argus  Ariadne  Arimaspi  Aristaeus  Arne  Artemis  Asclepius  Asopus  Asphodel Fields  Asteria  Astraeus  Astyanax  Atalanta  Ate  Athamas  Athena  Atlas  Atreus  Augeas  Auge  Ausonia  Autolycus  Automedon  Autonoe  Avernus  Bacchus  Baphyra  Battus  Baucis and Philemon

=== 페이지 1130 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1113  Bellerophon  Bendis  Biton and Cleobis  Boreas  Britomartis  Brizo  Brontes  Bucephalus  Busiris  Butes  Cabeiri  Cadmus  Caduceus  Caeneus  Caicas  Calais  Calchas  Callidice  Calliope  Callirrhoë  Callisto  Calydon  Calydonian Boar Hunt  Calypso  Canace  Capaneus  Caphaurus  Capys  Carme  Carpo  Carya  Caryatis  Cassandra  Cassiopea  Castalia  Castor and Polydeuces  Catreus  Cattle of the Sun  Caucasus  Caunus and Biblis  Cecrops  Cedalion  Celaeno  Centaur  Charon  Chimaera  Chthonian Gods  Colossus of Rhodes  Daedala  Daedalion  Daedalus  Daemon  Damon and Pythias  Danaans  Danaë  Danaidae  Daphne  Daphnis  Daphnis and Chlöe  Dardanus  Deianira  Deidamia  Deino  Delos  Delphi  Demeter  Demophon  Deucalion and Pyrrha  Diomedes  Dionysus  Dioscuri  Dodona  Doris  Dryads  Dryope  Echidna  Echo  Eirene  Electra  Eleusinian Mysteries  Elgin Marbles  Elysium  Enceladus  Endymion  Ephialtes  Epimenides  Erato  Erichthonius  Erigone  Erisichthon  Eros  Erymanthian Boar  Erytheis  Eteocles and Polynices  Etna  Eudora  Euhemerus  Eunomia  Euphrosyne  Eurydice  Eurytion  Gaea  Galanthis  Galatea  Ganymede  Garden of the  Hesperides  Gasterocheires  Geryon  Girdle of Venus  Glaucus  Golden Age  Golden Apples of the  Hesperides  Golden Fleece  Gordian Knot  Gorgons  Graeae  Gyges  Hades  Haemus  Halirrhothius  Harmonia  Harpies  Hebe  Hebrus  Hecate  Hector  Hecuba  Helen of Troy  Helenus  Heliades  Helios  Hemera  Hephaestus  Hera  Heracles  Hermaphroditus  Hermes  Hero and Leander  Hesiod  Hesione  Hesperides  Hesperus  Hestia  Hippolyte  Hippolytus  Horae  Hyacinthus  Hydra  Hygeia  Hylas  Hymen  Hyperboreans  Hyperion  Hypermnestra  Hypnos  Hypsipyle  Idomeneus  Indigetes  Io  Ion  Iphicles  Iphigenia  Iphimedia  Iphis  Iris  Ixion  Jason  Jocasta  Judgment of Paris  Lacedaemon  Lachesis  Ladon  Laertes  Laestrygones  Laius  Lamia  Laocoön  Laodameia  Laodice  Laomedon  Lapiths  Latinus  Leda  Lesbian  Lethe  Leto  Leucippus  Leucothea  Ligeia  Lotis  Lotophagi  Lycaon  Machaon  Magnes  Maia  Marsyas  Medea  Meleager

=== 페이지 1131 ===
1114   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  Menelaus  Mera  Mermerus and  Pheres  Metis  Midas  Minos  Minotaur  Moly  Momus  Morpheus  Muses  Myrmidons  Narcissus  Nausicaa  Nectar  Nemesis  Nereids  Nessus  Nestor  Nike  Niobe  Nox  Nymphs  Oceanus  Odysseus  Oedipus  Oenone  Olympian Gods  Omphale  Orestes  Orion  Orpheus  Palladium  Pallas  Pan  Panathenaea  Pandarus  Pandora  Paris  Parnassus  Parthenope  Parthenos  Pasiphaë  Patroclus  Pausanias  Pegasus  Peleus  Pelops  Penelope  Penthesilea  Pentheus  Perdix  Persephone  Perseus  Phaedra  Phaethon  Phaon  Philoctetes  Philomela  Phlegethon  Phlegyas  Phyllis  Pleiades  Pluto  Plutus  Polycrates  Polydamna  Polyphemus  Polyxena  Poseidon  Pothos  Priam  Priapus  Procrustes  Prometheus  Proteus  Psyche  Pygmalion  Pyramus and Thisbe  Pythia  Rhadamanthus  Rhesus  Rhoecus  Ripheus  Sarpedon  Satyrs  Scylla and Charybdis  Selene  Semele  Seven Sages of  Greece  Sibyls  Sileni  Sinon  Sirens  Sisyphus  Sphinx  Stymphalian Birds  Styx  Talus  Tantalus  Tartarus  Telegonus  Telemachus  Telephus  Telesphorus  Terpsichore  Tethys  Thalia  Thallo  Thamyris  Thanatos  Themis  Thersites  Theseus  Thespis  Thespius  Thetis  Timon of Athens  Tiresias  Titans  Tithonus  Triton  Trophonius  Troy  Typhon  Ulysses  Urania  Uranus  Wooden Horse  Xanthus  Zephyrus  Zetes  Zeus  H  h aitian  Agove Minoire  Agwé  Aido Quedo  Ayida  Azaca Mede  Azeto  Bacalou  Badessy  Baka  Baron Samedi  Cigouaves  Danbhalah Houé-Do  Danh  Diab  Diablesse  Duppies  Erzulie  Grand Bois d’Ilet  Gran Maître  Grede  Loa  Loco and Ayizan  Lutin  Mademoiselle Charlotte  Maît Carrefour  Maît Gran Bois  Maît Source  Manman Brigitte  Marasta  Mauvais  Mystère  Ogoun  Oum’phor  Petra Loa  Petro Simbi  Ti-Albert  Ti-Jean-Pied-Sec  Wanga  Zaka  Zombie  h indu  Adharma  Adi  Aditi  Agastya  Agneyastra  Agni  Akupera  Amareswara  Amrita  Andhaka  Animisha  Ardhananari  Arjuna  Asanga  Ashtavakra  Ashva-medha  Ashwins  Asuras  Atman  Avatar

=== 페이지 1132 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1115  Balarama  Bana  Bhaga  Bhagavad-Gita  Bhakti  Bharata  Bhima  Bhishma  Bhrigu  Bhuta  Brahma  Brahman  Brihaspati  Chandra  Churning of the Ocean  Chyavana  Dadhyanch  Daityas  Daksha  Dambhodbhava  Danavas  Deva  Devadasi  Devak  Devala  Devarshis  Devi or Mahadeve  Dhanvantari  Diti  Divali  Draupadi  Drona  Dur-yodhana  Dyaus and Prithivi  Ellora  Gada  Gandharvas  Ganesha  Garuda  Go-vardhana  Hanuman  Haris-chandra  Haya-griva  Hitopadesha  Ida  Indra  Indrani  Jagan-Natha  Jambavat  Janaka  Jara-sandha  Jayanti  Juggernaut  Kabandha  Kacha  Kala  Kalanemi  Kalidasa  Kaliya  Kalki  Kalmasha-pada  Kama  Kasyapa  Katha Sarit Sagara  Kaumodaki  Kravyad  Krishna  Kshandada-chara  Kubera  Kumara-sambhava  Lakshamana  Lakshmi  Lingam  Lokaloka  Lokapalas  Madira  Mahabharata, The  Maharajikas  Maharishi  Makara  Manu  Maruts  Maya  Meru  Mura  Naga  Namuchi  Nandin  Nidra  Nivata-Kavachas  Om  Panchajana  Panchatantra, The  Panis  Parameshthin  Paran-ja  Patala  Pisachas  Pradyumna  Prajapati  Prana  Preta  Priya-vrata  Puloman  Puranas  Purusha  Pushan  Pushpa-danta  Putana  Rahu  Raji  Rakshasas  Rama  Ramayana, The  Rati  Ravana  Revati  Ribhus  Rig-Veda  Rudra  Sadhyas  Sakradhanus  Samba  Sanaka  Sananda  Sanatana  Sanatkumara  Sanjna  Sati  Savitri  Shakuntala  Shatarupa  Shesha  Shiva  Shiva Nataraj  Sivamala  Skanda  Soma  Su-bhadra  Supratika  Surya  Syaha  Tara  Tarkshya  Tilaka  Tilottama  Tri-loka  Trimurti  Trisiras  Twashtri  Uccaihsravas  Uma  Upanishads  Urvasi  Varuna  Vasus  Vayu  Vedanta  Vedas  Vegtala  Vena  Vibhishana  Vimani  Vishnu  Vishvakarman  Viswamitra  Vritra  Yama  Yayati  Yoga  Yoni  Yuga  h ittite  Arinna  Atargatis  Inaras  Telepinus  h ua M achuco  i ndian   of  P   eru  Apocatequil  h uarochiri  (W arachiri )  i ndian   of  P   eru  Coniraya  Huathiacuri  Pariacaca  h ungarian  Coachman Legends  Garboncias  Istvan  Kossuth, Lajos  Mátyás  Rákóczi, Ferenc

=== 페이지 1133 ===
1116   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  I  i celandic  Frithjof’s Saga  Grettir the Strong  i nca  Catequil  Chasca  Cupay  Cuycha  Huaca  Inti  Mama Quilla  Manco Capac  and Mama Oello  Huaco  Pachamama  Vilacha  Viracocha  i ndo - c hine S e  Rangda  Story Cloths  Van-xuong  Yatawm and Yatai  i ri S h  Far Darria  Fear-Gorta  i S la M ic  Adam and Eve  Ahl-at-tral  Ahmad  Al Aaraaf  Ali  Al Jassasa  Al-Khadir  Allah  Ayesha  Azrael  Badal  Barsisa  Borak  Cain and Abel  Djokhrane  Dugong  Fatima  Habid al-Nadjdjar  Hadith  Hafaza  Harut and Marut  Hatim  Hegira  Houri  Hud  Iblis  Ifrits  Israfel  Kaaba  Khadijah  Koran  Lokman  Malec  Muhammad  Munkar and  Nakir  Rabi’a al-’Adawiya  Ramadan  Ruh  Sakatimuna  Sakhar  Saleh  Salman al-Parisi  Sang Gala Raja  Shaitans  Zamzam  i talian  Bertoldo  Hecatommithi  Sancus  Ugolino, Count  J  Ja P ane S e  Abe no Seimei  Abe no Yasuna  Adachigahara  Akubo  Akuma  Ama-no-hashidate  Ama-no-Kawa  Ama-no-Minaka-  Nushi  Amario  Amaterasu Omikami  Ama-tsu-kami and  Kuni-tsu-kami  Atago-Gongen  Bakemono  Benkei  Benten  Bimbo  Daikoku  Dosojin  Ebisu  Endo Morito  Fuji Hime  Fujiyama  Fushi Ikazuchi  Gama Sennin  Hannya  Heiki-Monogatari  Hidari Jingoro  Hinotama  Hiru Ko no Kikoto  Hitomaru  Hohodemi and Umi  Sachi Hiko  Ho-no-Ikazuchi  Horai  Hotai  Hotaru Hime  Ichimokuren  Ikazuchi  Ikiryo  Inari  Izanagi and  Izanami  Jimmu Tenno  Jingo Kogo  Jo and Uba  Joro Kumo  Kakurezator  Kami  Kappa  Karasu Tengu  Ken-ro-ji-jin  Kimon (demon gate)  Kishimojin  Kitsune  Kiyohime  Kojiki  Kojin  Kompira  Konsei dai-myojin  Koshin  Momotaro  Nihongi  Nijuhachi Bushu  No  No-no-Kami  Nure Onna  O-Ikazuchi  O Kiku  Oni  Otoroshi  Raiden  Saku-Ikazuchi  Sambiki Saru  Sansenjin  Shichi Fukujin  Susano  Tanuki Bozu  Tengu  Ujigami  Waki-Ikazuchi  Yama-otoko  Yama-uba  Yedo Go Nin Otoko  (Edo Go Nin Otoko)  Yuki Onna  Je W i S h  Aaron  Abdiel  Abel  Abezi-thibod  Abigail  Abraham  Abraxas  Absalom  Adam and Eve  Af and Hemah  Agrat bat  Mahalath  Alpha and Omega  Amnon of Mainz  Anael  Anakims  Ancient of Days  Angel  Archangels  Ariel  Arioch  Ark of the Covenant or  Testimony  Armageddon  Armilus

=== 페이지 1134 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1117  Asmodeus  Athaliah  Azariel  Azazel  Babel, Tower of  Balaam  Barabbas  Belial  Belshazzar  Benjamin  Bible, The  Blood Libel Legend  Cain and Abel  Chabriel  Chamuel  Chelm Goat, The  Cherubim  Daniel  David  Deborah  Delilah  Devils  Dinah  Dumah  Dybbuk  Elijah  Elisha  Enoch  Ephraim ben  Sancho and the  Parable of the  Two Gems  Esau  Esther  Eve  Exodus  Exorcism  Ezekiel  Ezra  Flaming Angel  Gabriel  Gideon  God and the Rising  Waters  Golem  Goliath  Hanukkah  Head and the Tail, The  Heaven and Hell  Isaac  Isaiah  Ishmael  Israel  Jacob  Jephthah  Jeremiah  Jezebel  Job  Jonah  Jonathan  Jorkemo  Joseph  Joshua  Judith  Kezef  Lahash  Lamech  Leah  Lilith  Magen David  Manasseh  Melchizedek  Menorah  Mephistopheles  Metatron  Methuselah  Mezuzah  Michael  Midrash  Miriam  Moses  Nebuchadnezzar  Noah  Passover  Pope Elhanan  Purah  Rabbi Eliezer  Rachel  Raphael  Raziel  Rebekah  Rival Schools of  Thought  Rosebush and the Apple  Tree, The  Rosh Ha-Shanah  Ruth  Salome  Samiasa  Sammael  Samson  Samuel  Sandalphon  Sarah  Satan  Saul  Seraphim  Sheol  Sodom and  Gomorrah  Solomon  Sukkoth  Talmud  Tamar  Uriel  Urim and Thummin  Vretil  Wisdom to Fools  Witch of Endor  Yahweh  Yesod  Za’afiel  Zacharias  Zadkiel  Zadok  Zagzagel  Zohar, The  Zophiel  K  k orean  Dog and the Cat,  The  Donkey’s Egg, The  Fire Dogs, The  Fountain of Youth,  The  Herdsman and the  Weaver, The  Mister Moon and Miss  Sun  Ogre’s Magic Clubs, The  Snail Lady, The  Rabbit and the Tiger,  The  Son of the Cinnamon  Tree, The  Tortoise and the Hare,  The  Two Brothers, The  L  l a PP  Aijeke  Cacce-jielle and  Cacce-jienne  Kied Kie Jubmel  Leib-olmai  M  Malayan  Badi  Bajang  Batara Guru  Batu Herem  Bisan  Che Puteh Jambai  Hantu  Hantu Ayer and Hantu  Laut  Hantu B’rok  Hantu Denej  Hantu Kubor  Hantu Pemburu  Hantu Songkei  Harimau Kramat  Kuda Sembrani  Langsuyar  Pawang  Pawang Pukat  Penanngga Lan  Polong  Sumangat  Mayan  Ab Kin Xoc  Ah Puch  Ah Raxá Lac  Ah Raxa Tzel  Ahtoltecat  Ahulane  Bacabs  Balam-Quitzé  Cabauil  Cahá-Paluna  Camazotz  Chac  Chay  Chichén Itzá  Ek Balam  Ek Chauah

=== 페이지 1135 ===
1118   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  Gagavitz  Gucumatz  Hacavitz  Hex Chun Chan  Homshuk  Hunab Ku  Hunahpú and  Xbalanqúe  Hurakán  Itzamná  Ixchel  Ix-huyne  Ixtab  Loltñn Cave  Mayan letter gods  Popol Vuh  Vacub-Caquix  Votan  Xaman Ek  Xpiyacoc and Xmucané  Yalahau  Zakiqoxol  Medieval  Abracadabra  Ahasuerus  Alains le Gros  Baldwin of Flanders  Beatrix  Bestiary  Chanticleer  Dance of Death  Dares Phrygius  Earthly Paradise, The  Flying Dutchman, The  Havelok the Dane  Heinrich von Aue  Holy Grail  Iron Crown of  Lombardy  Pope Joan  Prester John  Reynard the Fox  Saladin  Tamburlaine the Great  Tancred  Troilus and Cressida  Wandering Jew  William of Palermo  Melane S ian  Abere  Adaro  Adiri  Bariaus  Bego Tanutanu  Dudugera  Hatuibwari  Kambel  Kwoiam  Marunogere  Mesede  Ndauthina  Ndengei  Nuga  Qat  Ratu-mai-mbulu  Rokola  Sido  Tagaro  To-Kabinana and  To-Karvuvu  Tumudurere  Me S o P ota M ian  Ziggurat  Mexican  Huehueteotl  Poinsettia  Vaginal Serpent  Microne S ian  Aluluei  Bue  Kirata-n-te-rerei  Latimikaik  Lowa  Na Atibu  Nakaa  Nanimulap  Nareau  Nei Tituaabine  Olifat  Puntan  Mundurucu  i ndian   of   b razil  Karu and Rairu  Muy S ca   i ndian   of  c olo M bia  Chin  N  n ear   e a S tern  Aa  Adapa  Adrammelech  Anath  Anshar  Anu  Anunnaki  Apsu  Aqhat  Aralu  Arinna  Aruru  Asherah  Ashur  Astarte  Atargatis  Atheh  Attis  Av  Baal  Bau  Bel  Belit  Benini  Chemosh  Dagon  Damkina  Dilmun  Duranki  Ea  El  Enkidu  Enlil  Ereshkigal  Esmun  Etana  Gilgamesh  Gula  Inanna  Inaras  Irra (Dibbara, Girra,  Iea, Ura)  Ishtar  Lugulbanda  Marduk  Mot  Nabu  Nergal  Nidaba  Nikkal  Ninib  Ninurta  Reshpu  Rimmon  Sarpanitum  Semiramis  Shamash  Sin  Tammuz  Telepinus  Ubshukinna  Utnapishtim  Utukku  Zag-Muk  Ziusudra  Zu  n or S e  Aegir  Aesir  Aesir-Vanir War  Alf  Alfadir  Alfar  Alfheim  Andvaranaut  Andvari  Angurboda  Asgard  Asgardreia  Ask and Embla  Audhumla  Baldur  Balmung  Baugi  Bergelmir  Berserks  Bestla  Bifrost  Bil and Hjuki  Blain  Bragi  Breidalblick  Brimir

=== 페이지 1136 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1119  Brok  Brynhild  Byggvir  Byleipt  Dagr  Dockalfar  Dvalin  Eikthyrnir  Elivagar  Elves  Fafnir  Farbauti  Fenrir  Forseti  Freki and Geri  Frey  Freyja  Frigga  Froh  Garm  Geirrod and Agnar  Gerda  Ginnungagap  Gjallar-horn  Gollveig  Grimhild  Gudrun  Gunlod  Haddingjar  Heidrun  Heimdall  Hel  Hermod  Hlithskjolf  Hnossa  Hodur  Hoenir  Hugin and Munin  Hunding  Hymir  Iduna  Ivaldi  Jarnvidjur  Jord  Jotunheim  Jotunn  Kenning  Kvasir  Lif and Lifthrasir  Loki  Managarm  Midgard  Midgard Serpent  Mimir  Muspellheim  Naglfar  Nanna  Nari  Nibelungs  Nidhogg  Nifelheim  Nine Worlds  Nithavellir  Njord  Norns  Nott  Odhrerir  Odin  Poetic Edda  Prose Edda  Ragnarok  Ran  Ratatosk  Regin  Rinda  Saehrimnir  Seid  Sif  Siggeir  Sigi  Sigmund  Signy  Siguna  Sigurd  Sindri  Skadi  Skald  Skinfaxi  Skirnir  Skoll and Hati  Skuld  Slith  Sol  Surt  Suttung  Svadilfare  Tarnkappe  Thor  Thulur  Troll  Tyr  Ull  Urd  Utgard  Valhalla  Vali  Valkyries  Vanir  Var  Verdandi  Vidar  Vili  Vindheim  Vindsval  Volsunga Saga  Volva  Wade  Wave Maidens  Yggdrasill  Ymir  Yule  n orth   a M erican  i ndian  Aba  Anpetu wi and  Hanhepi wi  Asgaya Gigagei  Ataensic  Awonawilona  Begochiddy  Benedict, Ruth  Big Owl  Bik’eguidinde  Dajoji  Dayunsi  Dekanawida  Deohako  Dzelarhons  Dzoavits  Earth Diver  Estsanatlehi  Ghost Dance  Gluskap and Malsum  Go-oh  Gudatrigakwitl  Hactcin  Hiawatha  Hino  Iatiku  Iktomi  Iouskeha and  Tawiscaron  Italapas  Kachina  Kananesky Amaiyehi  Kitpusiagana  Kitshi Manitou  Korobona  Kukumatz and Tochipa  Kumokums  Libayé  Maheo  Manabozho  Manitou  Masewi and Oyoyewi  Matowelia  Napi  Natos  Nunyunuwi  Olelbis  Paruksti  Pourquois Story  Star Husband Tale  Sun Snarer  Taikó-mol  Taiowa  Tawiskaron  Tcoxoltcwedin  Thunderbird  Tirawahat  Totem  Uguku and Tskili  Ukuhi  Umai-hulhlya-wit  Unktomi  Untsaiyi  Upirikutsu  Vagina Dentata  Wabosso  Wahan Tanka  Wakinyan-Tanka  Wakonda  Wi-haru  Wihio  Windigo  n or W egian  Fylgia

=== 페이지 1137 ===
1120   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  O  o na   i ndian   of  t ierra   del   f uego  Chenuke  o rinoco   and  g uiana  Cachimana  Makonaima  P  P ana M anian  Chipiripa  Dabaiba  Sibu  P er S ian  Aeshma  Ahriman  Ahura Mazda  Ahurani  Airyaman  Akhtar  Als  Amesha Spentas  Anahita  Angry Acrobat, The  Atar  Avesta  Azhi Dahaka  Bahram Fire  Bahram Gur  Bustan, The  Chinvat  Daena  Dakhma  Dervish and the King,  The  Drugaskan  Falcon and the Owls,  The  Faridun  Fravashis  Gayomart  Gulistan, The  Haoma  Hushedar, Hushedar-  mar, and Soshyant  Husheng  Hyarekhshaeta,  Khorshed, and  Mitro  Jahi  Jemshid  Karshipta  Kavah  Keresaspa  Mah  Masnavi, The  Minuchihr  Mithras  Mitokht  Nairyo-sangha  Nasnas  Nasu  Pairikas  Palis  Ram  Rapithwin  Rashnu  Rustum  Sadi  Shah Namah  Simurgh  Slave and the Master,  The  Sohrab  Tahumers  Tishtrya  Verethraghna  Vis and Ramin  Vourukasha  Yazatas  Yima  Zahhak  Zal  Zarathustra  Zaremaya  Zurvan  P eruvian  Ekkekko  Mama Allpa  Pachacamac  P hili PP ine  Indarapatra  Kadaklan  P hoenician  Mot  P hrygian  Attis  P lant  ( b otanical   )  Acanthus  Almond  Apple  Apricot  Ash  Aspen  Bamboo  Bean  Birch  Cabbage  Carnation  Cedar  Cherry  Clover  Coffee  Corn  Daisy  Fig  Garlic  Ginseng  Grape  Hazel  Heliotrope  Hyacinth  Juniper  Laurel  Leek  Lentil  Lettuce  Lily  Lotus  Mandrake  Mistletoe  Mulberry  Mushroom  Myrrh  Myrtle  Nut  Oak  Onion  Orange  Palm  Parsley  Peach  Pine  Pomegranate  Potato  Radish  Rice  Rose  Rosemary  Rowan  Rue  Sage  Star of Bethlehem  Strawberry  Thistle  Tomato  Violet  Wheat  Willow  Yarrow  Yew  P oli S h  Bartek and Pies  Dziwozony  P olyne S ian  Ahoeitu  Atea and Papa  Haumea  Hikuleo  Iwa  Kae  Kana  Kumu-honua and  Lalo-honua  Maui  Oro  Pahuanuiapitasitera’i  Pele  Pikoi  Tane  Tangaloa  Tiki  Tinirau  Tu  P ortugue S e  Inéz de Castro, Doña  Sebastian, Don

=== 페이지 1138 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1121  P uelcho   i ndian  El El  R  r o M an  Acca Larentia  Achates  Aeneid, The  Aequalitas  Amburbium  Amor  Ancile  Anna Perenna  Antinous  Arae  Ascanius  Astraea  Augures  Augustus  Aurora  Auster  Bacchants  Belisarius  Bellona  Berenice  Bidental  Bona Dea  Brutus, Lucius Junius  Brutus, Marcus Junius  Bulla  Caca  Cacus  Caeculus  Camilla  Camillus  Camillus, Marcus  Furius  Campus Martius  Canens  Capitol  Cardea  Carmenta  Carna  Cato the Younger,  Marcus Porcius  Cincinnatus, Lucius  Quinctius  Corydon  Cupid  Curtius, Marcus  Decius Mus  Diana  Dido  Egeria  Elysium  Epona  Erulus  Etna  Evander  Fama  Fasces  Faunus  Februata  Feronia  Fides  Flamen Dialis  Flora  Fornax  Fortuna  Fraus  Fulgora  Furina  Genius  Germanicus Caesar  Girdle of Venus  Golden Age  Golden Bough  Gordian Knot  Gracchi  Hermaphroditus  Horatii  Horatius Cocles  Janus  Jove  Juno  Juventas  Laocoön  Lares  Latinus  Laverna  Lavinia  Lemures  Lethe  Libitina  Livy  Lucretia  Lucretius  Luna  Magna Mater  Majestas  Manes  Mars  Mater Matuta  Matronalia  Mercury  Minerva  Muta  Naenia  Neptune  Nero, Claudius Caesar  Ops  Orcus  Ovid  Pales  Palinurus  Palladium  Pallas  Pallor and Pavor  Panacea  Pax  Penates  Picus  Pietas  Pomona  Priapus  Robigo  Roma  Romulus and Remus  Rumina  Salacia  Saturn  Semones  Seven Kings of Rome  Seven Wonders of the  World  Silvanus  Spes  Summanus  Talassio  Tarchon  Tarpeia  Tarquinius Priscus  Tellus Mater  Terminus  Terra  Tiberinus  Vacuna  Venus  Veritas  Vertumnus  Vesper  Vesta  Vestal Virgins  Victoria  Viriplaca  Virtus  Volturnus  Vulcan  r o M anian  Vlad Tepes  r u SS ian  Afanasiev, Alexander  Nikolaievitch  Ala  Alexander Nevsky  Aliosha Popovich  Azadovskii, Mark  Konstantinovich  Baba Yaga  Babushka-Lyagushka-  Skakushka  Baldak Borisievich  Bylina  Firebird, The  Foma Berennikov  Fool in the Birch Tree,  The  Frolka Stay-at-Home  Glass Mountain, The  Golden Cockerel, Tale  of the  Ilya Muromets  Ivan the Terrible  Kikimora  Korka-Murt and  Korka-Kuzo  Kostchei  Kot Boyun  Lay of Igor’s Army, The  Likho  Marko, the Gravedigger  Mati-Syra-Zemlya  Mikula Selyaninovich  Misha  Nikitch, Dobrynya  Petrushka  Potok-Mikhailo-  Ivanovich

=== 페이지 1139 ===
1122   List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity  Primary Chronicle  Prince Vladimir and  the Fall of the Old  Gods  Prince Vladimir’s Quest  Propp, Vladimir  Razin, Stenka  River of Fire  Sadko  Shatulka  Silver Roan, The  Snegurotchka  Svyatogor  Tale of Boris and Gleb,  The  Tale of Bygone Years, The  Thamar  Volkh  S  S cotti S h  Bruce, Robert  Clootic  Lang, Andrew  Loch Ness Monster  Thistle  S erbian  Kralyevich Marko  Sreca  Walled-Up Wife,  The  S iberian  Ajy  Ajyset  Alkha  Buga  Burkhan  Chagan-Shukuty  Dsajaga  Erlik  Garide Bird  Kapsirko  Kezer-Tshingis-Kaira-  Khan  Khadau and Mamaldi  Kisagan-Tengri  Komdei-Mirgan  Losy  Maidere  Mu-monto  Nama  Natigay  Otshirvani  Pajana  Solbon  Tengri  Torongoi and Edji  Ulgen  Yryn-Ajy-Tojon  S lavic  Bannik  Byelobog and  Chernobog  Dazhbog  Dazhbog and Lada  Dilwica  Divji Moz  Domovoi  Domovoi and the Two  Peasants, The  Dracula  Dziady  Farmer and the Leshy,  The  Gore  Ivan Savelevich and the  Rusalka  Khors  Kupalo  Lado and Lada  Leshy  Ludki  Mazeppa, Ivan  Mokos  Mora  Peklo  Polednice  Polevik  Pyerun  Rusalka  Semargl  Skritek  Sovi  Stribog  Svantovit  Svarogich  Tailor and the Leshy,  The  Trojanu  Vlkodlak  Vodyanik  Volos  Yarilo  Zduh  S outh   a M erican  El Dorado  Zupay  S P ani S h  Alonzo de Aguilar,  Don  Amadis of Gaul  Bernardo del Carpio  Boabdil  Carlos, Don  Cid, El  Don Juan Tenorio  Don Quixote  González, Conde  Fernán  Lara, Infantes de  Melisenda  Pedro the Cruel  Roderick, Don  S P ani S h   -M oori S h  Abenamar and King  Don Juan  S u M erian  Dilmun  Duranki  Inanna  Nidaba  Sin  Ziusudra  S u M ero - a kkadian  Anshar  Anu  Ea  Enlil  Ninurta  S urina M e S e  Halwanli, Hiwanama,  and Ourwanama  S W edi S h  Sjoran  S W i SS  William Tell  S yrian  Reshpu  S yro -P hoenician  Esmun  T  t aino   i ndian  of   c uba  Guagugiana  t atar  Swan Woman, The  t ehuelche  i ndian   of  P ayagonia  El-lal  Guayavacuni  t ibetan  Boy, His Sisters, and the  Magic Horse, The  Daughter and the  Helper, The  Girl Who Was Already  Queen, The  Unwilling Magician,  The  t oltec  Kukulcán  Quetzalcoatl  Tezcatlipoca  t u P i   i ndian   of  b razil  Apoiaueue  Aroteh and Tovapod

=== 페이지 1140 ===
List of Entries Categorized by Culture and Ethnicity   1123  Aunyain-á  Ceiuci  Korupira  Monan  Pabid  Valedjád  t urki S h  Rose and the Butterfly,  The  U  u a P e S   i ndian   of  b razil  Jurupari  u krainian  Golden Mountain,  The  Marusya  W  W arau   i ndian  of   the   g uiana S  Abore  Okonorote  Y  y ahgan   i ndian   of  t ierra   del   f uego  Watauineiwa  Z  z otzil   i ndian  Zotz

=== 페이지 1141 ===


